SUBURB,DESCRIPTION,LONG DESCRIPTION
WARRAWEE||
NORTH STRATHFIELD||
VOYAGER POINT||
SADLEIR||
CECIL HILLS||
RUSE||
GYMEA||
MIDDLETON GRANGE||
ENGADINE||
LONDONDERRY||
NORTH EPPING||
SCARBOROUGH||
TELOPEA||
OATLEY||
MARSDEN PARK||
LUDDENHAM||
SHANES PARK||
BONNYRIGG||
QUEENS PARK||
DARLINGHURST|The red lights have dimmed in Darlinghurst, revealing a postcode full of world-class restaurants, cafes and bars.|Colourful and complex, Darlinghurst has always been at the heart of the action. With its eclectic mix of dingy bars, high-end restaurants, art colleges and private schools; the diversity is exactly what the locals love about the area. Bordered by Kings Cross, Surry Hills and the City, life in Darlinghurst is never going to be slow – and nor would the locals want it to be. Thanks to a proliferation of share houses, apartment complexes and town houses, people from all walks of life call Darlinghurst home.  Architect-designed high-density living attracts empty-nesters, who also enjoy the busy cafes and restaurants. And students and professionals alike can be found in converted terraces that sit should-to-shoulder in Darlinghurst’s narrow streets. There’s a certain glamour to Darlinghurst these days, but that doesn’t mean it has lost any of its vigour. Stanley Street, Victoria Street and Taylor Square all offer up nightclubs, bars and pubs for all-night-long entertainment. There are a lot more cafes, these days, and some of Sydney’s best restaurants, plus family-friendly gelato bars and pizzerias. Walkable to the city, with plenty of buses to Bondi Beach along Oxford Street, getting to and from the suburb has never been a problem. The charming Darlinghurst Public School is well attended locally, while the illustrious Sydney Boys Grammar and SCEGGS Darlinghurst are also academic options for families. In Darlinghurst, everything old is new again. The old sandstone Darlinghurst Gaol, built between 1836 and 1840, now houses up-and-coming artists attending the National Art School. Along the winding streets, tightly packed double story Victorian and Federation terraces are being remodelled and renovated by professionals, while the famous Harry Seidler designed Horizon apartment complex snakes up through the clouds. Darlinghurst’s pulse still beats a little faster than many other postcodes in the state, but with the rise of gentrification, the mood is a little more gentle. The narrow, twisting streets; the bustling cafes and the creative vibe make it a fun and exciting place for people who also like to enjoy a lifestyle outside their front door.
CHATSWOOD WEST||
MORTLAKE||
CREMORNE|There’s something special going on in Cremorne: it’s a calm blend of old-school style with youthful vigour.|Blessed with parklands, fringed by water and boasting wide footpaths, this sliver of Sydney offers up the space and freedom of suburbia but is still only six kilometres from the city. Through its heart runs the busy Military Road, while the suburb itself sits snugly next Neutral Bay and Mosman. There’s also Cremorne Point to the south, a more exclusive enclave, which claims prime positioning in the Harbour. Walk into any cafe in Cremorne and you’ll see a quick snapshot of the locals who make up the area. Young twenty-somethings and older sixty-everythings are ordering up café-lattes to go, but the majority of homeowners are between 35 and 55, often professionals in white-collar industries. During the week, Military Road ferries busy commuters back and forth from work but come the weekend, it’s also the spot where locals go for provedores, cold-drip coffee and the Hayden Orpheum Picture Palace – a stunning 1930s Art Deco cinema, complete with wurlitzer pipe organ.  A stroll to Primrose Park and you’ll find tennis courts, walking trails and the quaint community Art and Crafts Centre, not to mention sparkling water views. SCECGS Redlands, a co-educational private school, has its senior campus in Military Road and the junior and middle campus is found in Murdoch Street. Renters are on the rise in Cremorne, so it’s no surprise to find plenty of apartment blocks in the area – ranging from Art Deco to more modern multi-dwelling builds. Freestanding Federation and Californian Bungalows dot the streets, the most beautiful example being the heritage listed ‘Belvedere’ designed by Alexander Stewart Jolly in 1919. Military Road provides plenty of hum, with plenty of old fashioned high street stores and more modern restaurants.  Don’t be fooled by the quiet streets, the charming cinema and the laidback lifestyle: this is a place where hard working Sydney folk cool their heels. The real beauty of the postcode is that once you’re north of the Bridge, there’s a true sense of serenity, not to mention a gateway to the glorious Northern Beaches.
WAITARA||
ORCHARD HILLS||
STRATHFIELD SOUTH||
WILLMOT||
REVESBY HEIGHTS||
BERALA||
BONDI|It’s easy to determine the Bondi locals from the hoards of tourists: the locals are in work-out gear.|If you’re after beach views, a lively nightlife scene, shopping just around the corner and all just a hop skip and a jump from the city, it’s hard to go past Bondi. It may come as no surprise but with a place as lovely as this, you’ll be sharing bustling Bondi beach with local and international tourists, intrepid surfers and backpackers. However, tourists and residents alike need to hustle for pram space on the footpath: there are plenty of families in Bondi – every second household here includes children. Unsurprisingly, the main shopping, eating and drinking strip in Bondi is on Bondi Road, facing the beach. Bondi Icebergs rises at the Southern end of the beach, a swimming club perhaps best known for its bistro and bars. Amidst the fish and chip and burger joints, you’ll find plenty of places to have a drink and a whole lot of Thai restaurants. Neighbouring Bondi Junction is the place to head for serious shopping, with a mammoth Westfield showcasing leading brands, together with places to do your groceries. The train station is also at Bondi Junction, about 2km from Bondi Beach, and there are plenty of buses from Bondi to the city and surrounding suburbs. Bondi real estate is a jumble sale of abodes from plenty of eras, in various states of repair. Developers squabble over forgotten cottages sitting on prime real estate, while new apartment blocks spring up alongside beautiful old art deco buildings. Whether you’re after a one bedroom flat or a six-bedroom architect-designed masterpiece – it’s here (if you want to pay for it). Apartments are the dominant housing style here. There are a few terraces and townhouses, and a very small number of stand-alone houses on offer. There’s a reason Bondi is world-famous: this beach-side town buzzes with activity, from fitness pursuits to those indulging in eating and drinking. With easy access to the beach and the city, and plenty of abodes on offer from cozy apartments to huge entertainers, it’s a fabulous place to call home.
WAVERLEY||
KINGSFORD||
BOX HILL||
MOUNT LEWIS||
KENTHURST||
WERRINGTON COUNTY||
BELFIELD||
FRENCHS FOREST|After a value-for-money family home with all the trimmings of a Northern Beaches lifestyle? Frenchs Forest might be the one for you.|Neighbouring the Garigal National Park, Belrose and Forestville, Frenchs Forest – named after John French who acquired the area in the late 19th century – is a lush, green neighbourhood in Sydney’s Northern Beaches area. Families of all shapes and sizes are found here in Frenchs Forest. The wide,  meandering streets are filled with bikes, skateboards and L-platers. Grown locally in the fertile soil of the area, organic fruit and vegetables are the pride of the community. Every Sunday, the locals flock to Parkway Hotel car park for the bustling local produce markets. The Forestway shopping centre, at the intersection of Forestway and Warringah Roads, is where you’ll find supermarkets and chemists.  Buses are supplied through the Forest Coach Line to surrounding train stations and to the city, but most of the residents here stick to their cars for commuting. There are great local schools too, including Frenchs Forest Public School, The Forest High School, Mimosa Public School and Davidson High School at the western end of Frenchs Forest. Welcome to Emerald City. The green and lush national park that surrounds  Frenchs Forest is also home to native wallabies, snakes, lizards and birds – and  exploring the park is a huge perk of the postcode. But there are plenty of trees  through the streets too, not to mention wide blocks of land and large, multi- storey family homes ranging from mid-century style to more modern builds. The  area is largely residential with the Forestway shopping centre at the heart. If you’re feeling the city squeeze, Frenchs Forest might just be the breath of fresh air you’ve been looking for.
OLD GUILDFORD||
KURNELL||
MULGOA||
BUSBY||
BRINGELLY||
EAGLE VALE||
TEMPE||
LAKEMBA||
MEADOWBANK||
ST MARYS||
HURSTVILLE|With plenty of shopping, entertainment, big business and activities to occupy the little ones, Hurstville strikes the balance between city amenities and family-friendly living.|Hurstville is brimming with brick family homes, complete with yards and if you’re lucky, a hills hoist. For cosier quarters, find yourself one of the many apartments available. Families enjoy the huge Hurstville Westfield and having everyone home in time for dinner. Hurstville has always been popular with immigrants, and currently has a large Chinese community. Hurstville Westfield shopping centre stretches across three city blocks, offering hours of shopping entertainment and a cinema, together with all your day-to-day essentials. The smaller Hurstville Central sits atop the train station. Hurstville is a hub for public transport. The train line is part of the Illawarra line and both standard and express trains stop at the station. A major bus station is located on Forest Road. Plenty of schools service Hurstville, including religious, boys, girls and co-educational schools. Sydney Technical High School is a selective school for boys in neighbouring Bexley. Hurstville City Library incorporates a museum and gallery. Half of all homes in Hurstville are apartments and more continue to be developed, so buying off the plan is an option. There are plenty of fixer-uppers, but if you’re after something shiny and new, some architect-designed masterpieces are available. A substantial number of stand-alone houses remain on large blocks, but these are becoming hot property for developers, so expect them to become an endangered species in the near future. Proximity to the city, plenty of shopping and loads of amenities for families make Hurstville an attractive home for those wanting the convenience of city living, with space for the family to play. With new apartment developments continuing to rise (literally), Hurstville is sure to grow into an even more dynamic suburb.
DUNDAS VALLEY||
WEST PYMBLE||
CROWS NEST|Despite its commercial heart and busy intersections, Crows Nest is becoming a real hot spot for savvy investors.|It might not have the same elegance as nearby Neutral Bay or the water views of Cammeray, but Crows Nest has developed its own sense of vibrancy. It’s an interesting blend of commercial intersections and village-like streets and is fast becoming well known for the quality of its cheap eats. With quick and easy city connectivity and diverse real estate options, Crows Nest is on the up. Proximity to North Sydney and the city, with its own pulsing commercial centre, Crows Nest makes sense for professional 20-, 30- and 40-somethings. The bustling roads and the crowded high streets keep pace with inner-city neighbourhoods, adding another option to Sydney’s tightly held apartment and housing market. It’s surprising just how serene Crows Nest can be, especially when hemmed in by Pacific Highway and the Warringah Freeway. The local pub, The Crows Nest Hotel (or Crowie to locals) offers family meals and light entertainment, but it’s the stunning array of cheap and cheerful quality Asian eats (found around Willoughby Road) that are really putting the postcode on the foodie radar. Buses service all sides of the suburb and nearby St Leonards train station connects to the city and northern suburbs. For schools, the selective North Sydney Girls School and North Sydney Boys School both offer excellent academic options. Elevated and busy with surprises around the corner, Crows Nest offers some tree-lined streets and a smattering of terrace style houses. The main order of the day, however, is multi-storey dwellings and apartment blocks, ranging from modern architecture to mid-century and Art Deco. A strong commercial heart beats in this postcode, so you’ll also find plenty of businesses and office blocks. Often overshadowed by its more salubrious neighbours, Crows Nest has been developing a really interesting community. There are diverse shops, a rising foodie scene and pockets of loveliness on the well-planned streets. And the jewel in the crown is its central location, easily accessing harbourside parks, train lines, northern beaches and the city.
WARWICK FARM||
ROCKDALE||
ST JOHNS PARK||
NORTH ROCKS||
ULTIMO||
JAMISONTOWN||
BEACONSFIELD||
MIRANDA||
WEDDERBURN||
HORNINGSEA PARK||
BALMAIN EAST||
MERRYLANDS WEST||
KENTLYN||
CANLEY VALE||
SILVERWATER||
CHISWICK||
WOOLOOWARE||
HINCHINBROOK||
ROSE BAY||
MILSONS PASSAGE||
CONCORD WEST||
REDFERN|Once decidedly bohemian, Redfern is in the later stages of gentrification and is a perfectly positioned city base.|Fewer than three kilometres from Sydney CBD with excellent examples of Victorian-era housing, Redfern residents are thoroughly enjoying its revival. Although this very popular suburb is home to all kinds of people from around Australia (Redfern is home to a proud Indigenous community) and across the world, you won’t meet many families with children. The quality coffee shops are packed with students and professionals. Conveniently located close to Sydney’s CBD (it’s just one stop away from Central Station by train) together with a well-serviced bus network, Redfern is primed for getting around. When they fly, locals enjoy their enviable proximity to the airport too. Redfern residents can be found enjoying a cosmopolitan lifestyle, eating out and catching up with friends in the many local cafes, bars and restaurants. Day-to-day amenities are all here too with a supermarket, newsagent, boot maker and other such necessities available. If you’re so inclined, there’s some marvellous shopping to be had on Elizabeth Street. The area bordered by Eveleigh, Caroline, Louis and Vine Streets is known as ‘The Block’ – an Indigenous housing project with a tragic history but a brighter future. Properties owned by the Aboriginal Housing Company were demolished in 2004 to make way for the Pemulwuuy Project, a (yet to be completed) development offering affordable housing for 62 families, a gymnasium, commercial and retail space, a gallery, accommodation for 154 students and a childcare space for 60 children. As one of Sydney’s oldest suburbs, Redfern has its share of homes with history and has been used as a backdrop for Victorian-era television shows. Over time, these houses have been supplemented with industrial spaces and apartment buildings. Today it offers an interesting mix of architecture and homes from cozy studios to large multi-level warehouse conversions. Want to be part of history? Rapidly changing Redfern may be becoming gentrified, but it’s lost none of its edge. Beautiful historic architecture, some fantastic modern renovations and a lively food, wine and arts scene mean you’ll never be bored in Redfern.
PEMULWUY||
MILLERS POINT||
DURAL||
ENGLORIE PARK||
DUNDAS||
MORTDALE|This little suburb has been quietly expanding and developing in Sydney’s south for decades, and now it’s ready to hit the main stage.|Beginning as a small farming community established around the late 1700s, the Mortdale of today bears little resemblance to its past. The arrival of the historic train station in 1897, linking the area to the city, was a catalyst for development and the town has built up around the station. Now fringed by major roads, a tranquil bay and multicultural community, this postcode is a hot spot for lifestyle and investment. Good value housing is notoriously hard to find in Sydney, which is why so many have flocked to Mortdale, where unit blocks, apartments, townhouses and family homes are still competitively priced. One of the prized assets of the area is the even spread of generations and multicultural mix, giving this little neighbourhood plenty of options for food and shopping. A village-style community is thriving in Mortdale, thanks to the cluster of shops around the train station. There’s everything from a butcher who serves up the Sunday roast, to the local pizzeria and hairdresser. Just 20km from the city for day-to-day commuting, yet far enough to have its own sense of community, Mortdale offers an old-fashioned suburb with a vibrant mix of cultures. Alight the train at Mortdale station, and you’ll be greeted by an old-fashioned high street filled with butchers, bakers and delis. A great spot for city-workers, you’ll also discover most of the modern units and apartments clustered around the nearby streets. Taking advantage of the larger block size, 1920s-style and mid-century double fronted homes abound. This is a suburb where backyards are still a part of the housing package. At first glance on a map, Mortdale’s easy access to the city and airport seems to be its main attraction, but those in the community talk of simple day-to-day delights. It’s an active neighbourhood; Memorial Park is alive with young children and marriage ceremonies, the golf green brings regulars together on the weekends and the bustling streets around the train station continue to reflect the vibrant, multicultural community that add a special something to the postcode.
LUGARNO||
MAROUBRA|Under 20 minutes drive from the city, with beautiful beaches, plenty of amenities and a healthy nightlife, Maroubra is the perfect spot to work, rest and play.|Plenty of space for recreation, and plenty of amenities make Maroubra a coveted address. Its beauty evokes passion, and occasionally controversy, but overall, Maroubra locals will tell you they’re blessed to call this seaside community home. Maroubra is a destination for many, so it’s sometimes hard to tell the locals from the visitors. Tell-tale signs are a slight tan, surfers’ abs and the ability to predict decent surf. Maroubra’s most outstanding feature is Maroubra Beach, the second beach in Australia (after Bells Beach) crowned as a National Surfing Reserve. You’ll find plenty of competitions on the beach, featuring the rock stars of surfing. On dry land, there’s an outdoor gym, plenty of joggers and the occasional beach cricket competition (international standard!). Pacific Square is the major shopping centre and other shops can be found along Anzac Parade and Maroubra Road and surrounding streets. Dudley’s Emporium is a smaller shopping centre which was built in 1912. Lexington Place is a somewhat infamous shopping district, and South Maroubra Shopping village, adjacent to the Sands Hotel, has a smaller collection of shops including a pharmacy and supermarket. Most locals travel by bus or car. There are many schools servicing Maroubra locals including public, private and religious schools. Maroubra offers up a range of properties: from those who enjoy the thrill of renovation, to those who want to move in, pop the champagne and recline without a worry in the world. All of these homes are in demand. But be warned if you’re just window shopping – these are some seriously alluring properties. You might find yourself with an auction paddle in your hand before you know it… Maroubra’s oldest store was built in 1912. Since then it’s gathered a rich history – from fame to infamy and everything in between. While it’s still rougher in some parts than others, homes in this coastal community are in demand. As they should be: Maroubra’s proximity to the city, amenities, food culture and natural beauty make it an exciting destination.
PADSTOW|Part of the southern-west set, Padstow has real potential with a tight-knit community, bigger blocks and competitive price tags.|Set to the south of Bankstown and bordered by Salt Pan Creek to the east, this little neighbourhood is located 22km from the CBD and is only a 20 minute drive to Parramatta (to the north) or Sydney airport (to the east). It’s safe to say it passes the location test with flying colours. Add to that a tight-knit local community that has grown up in the area, and you have a vibrant and attractive little enclave. This is a place where families grow up together. Along the streets, in the supermarkets and in the parks, families gather and play. But it’s a young suburb in other ways too, as newly independent youth use Padstow as their first home suburb, for renting and for buying. The hub for this little neighbourhood can be found at the Howard Road and Padstow Parade intersection – plenty of cafes, grocers and eateries are dotted along the road and in the shopping centre – which is where the train station and the huge local library is to be found as well. The reserve around Salt Pan Creek offers up plenty of greenery, and is filled with kids’ sports on the weekends, walking trails and barbeque areas. There are three junior public schools in the area, with high school students travelling to neighbouring suburbs for high schools. With the opening of the train station in the 1930s, Padstow was transformed from a timber farm to a real Australian suburb, with plenty of wide-blocked homes with a front yard and backyard that still remain today. Recently, new multi-level apartment blocks have also been introduced to the area, particularly around the train station. Thanks to excellent connectivity to the city and surrounding hubs, like Bankstown, Padstow is first rate for commuters. But it’s within the community itself that you’ll find the true rewards of this suburb – wide streets, easy parking and plenty of parklands – it’s easy to see why this suburb is on the rise.
ST IVES|This is a place where the trees grow tall, the pace is slow and Sydneysiders can escape the city.|St Ives started out as a sleepy rural outpost, known for timber plantations and small-scale apple orchards. Today, this attractive and affluent neck of the woods on the Upper North Shore offers an idyllic escape without sacrificing city connectivity. With room to move, it’s no wonder that the majority of homeowners in this postcode come complete with kids and a dog, in fact over 50 percent of households here have children – young and high-school aged. Any given weekend in St Ives you’ll see wagon-loads of children being ferried about their day by parents, Hassell park comes alive with the sounds of community sports and you’ll smell the sizzling barbecues as this neighbourhood’s residents entertain. The St Ives Shopping Centre bustles with locals stocking up for the week, or sipping lattes in one of the many cafes. At the heart of the area, Mona Vale Road connects to the stunning Northern Beaches and the city. There are plenty of schooling options; including St Ives Public School, Sydney Grammar Preparatory school and Brigidine College. Development in this quiet outpost really took off in the 1960s when post-war migrants, mainly of Italian origin, set up home here in the government commissioned weatherboard houses. Today, the double-sized blocks boast salubrious takes on period, Hamptons and Federation-style homes. At the heart of the area, close to the St Ives shopping centre, smaller apartment style developments have begun to spring up, but this is still a family-home dominated neighbourhood.  St Ives is beautiful on the inside and out, thanks to lush greenery and active community. On the first Sunday of every month, fresh organic fruits, vegetables and handicrafts tempt the locals at the St Ives Handmade Markets, while to the north, the wildflower garden comes into full bloom each spring. It’s hard to believe that something so idyllic is only an hour away from Sydney.
PEAKHURST HEIGHTS||
MARAYONG||
ACACIA GARDENS||
OXLEY PARK||
HOMEBUSH|With a multicultural community, plenty of schools servicing the area and homes ranging from simple apartments to architect-designed houses, Homebush is a great place to put down roots.|Homebush made its mark on the world map during Australia’s hosting of the Olympics in 2000. That particular area has since been named ‘Olympic Park’, but Homebush is a good sport about it. The world came to Homebush in 2000 – and plenty decided to stay. The suburb has a strong cultural mix with locals hailing from across the globe, including India, China, Korea and Sri Lanka. There’s a strong working mix as well – professionals, office workers and tradies, all make their homes here. For those who prefer organic, sustainable produce there are several stores specialising in health food, and Flemington Market is not far away. Homebush Train Station is a sizeable station and although limited stops trains do not stop here, there are services (about two per hour throughout the day and increased services at peak hour). Buses are available, or Flemington, Strathfield and North Strathfield train stations are not far away. Traffic into the city is often congested during peak times, so about a third of locals opt to take the train. There are shops including a post office and restaurants on Rochester Street and The Crescent near the train station and Homebush Public School (primary). Homebush Boys High School also services the suburb. You might not notice it if you’re flying through Homebush on Parramatta Road, but there are all kinds of homes on offer here. Apartments are by far the most popular, but there are plenty of houses too. A few town houses make up the balance. There are plenty of fixer-uppers together with homes straight off the plan and everything in between. If you’re looking for a multicultural, family-friendly home close to transport, sporting amenities, great food and a hop skip and a jump from the city, Homebush is the spot for you.
BARDWELL VALLEY||
LUCAS HEIGHTS||
KELLYVILLE|Need room to move? Kellyville homes are built with families in mind.|Named not for the helmeted bushranger, but an Irish clan who lived in the area in the 1800s, Kellyville used to be home to market gardens. Now you’re more likely to find housing estates than rows of veggies, but as Kellyville inches further and further towards development, it remains a gateway to more rural settings. These days Kellyville locals are more likely to be professionals than farmers; more likely to work in offices and classrooms than orchards and paddocks. Just 35 minutes from Sydney city by car (and a little over an hour by bus) Kellyville is the ultimate almost-country getaway. Kellyville Plaza is the major shopping centre, with a Coles supermarket and plenty of shops. If Woolworths is your supermarket of choice there’s one next door. On Windsor Road you’ll find ‘The Village’, a collection of local shops and the huge Kellyville Pets store. Rouse Hill is the nearest organic food and farmers market and is held every Saturday in Rouse Hill Town Centre, about 10 minutes’ drive from Kelllyville. For sports lovers, the Bernie Mullane Sporting Complex offers a health club, creche and kiosk together with courts and facilities for basketball, netball, gymnastics, martial arts, badminton, indoor soccer, volleyball and more. On non-sports days, there are plenty of parks for tiring out little ones. Although you can still find semi-rural areas of Kellyville, many homes are part of estates. There are five major housing estates: the leafy and prestigious Duncraig Estate, the upmarket Highlands Estate, the highly accessible Elizabeth Macarthur Estate, and Old Homeworld Display Village and New Homeworld Display Village, where retired display homes are sold as residences. There are also acreages and at the other end of the spectrum, limited townhouses, available. If you’re after a huge home for your family, you need look no further than Kellyville. When the Lane Cove tunnel and M2 are flowing, you can drive from Kellyville to the city in about 35 minutes, and oh, what a place to come home to. Beautiful parks, plenty of facilities and of course, gorgeous homes, make this a fantastic place to put down roots.
CHELTENHAM||
HEATHCOTE||
OLD TOONGABBIE||
ROOKWOOD||
LANE COVE NORTH||
OAKHURST||
TOONGABBIE||
HUNTLEYS POINT||
MOUNT KURING-GAI||
GEORGES HALL||
THORNLEIGH||
DACEYVILLE||
CABARITA||
GREENWICH||
WALLACIA||
VARROVILLE||
COTTAGE POINT||
FAIRLIGHT||
BONDI BEACH||
LETHBRIDGE PARK||
BEXLEY NORTH||
HOLSWORTHY||
ST CLAIR||
BREAKFAST POINT||
WERRINGTON DOWNS||
SMEATON GRANGE||
DOLLS POINT||
GREENDALE||
GLENDENNING||
CASULA||
PENSHURST||
RAMSGATE||
CASTLE HILL|Once dominated by orchards, Castle Hill is now home to business parks, shopping centres and some of the Hills district’s finest homes.|Castle Hill is a 30-minute drive to Sydney city on a good day (in peak hour it’s closer to 50 minutes). It’s a popular suburb with plenty of amenities, including Castle Towers, a behemoth shopping centre. A Castle Hill address is a source of pride, and many properties are valued at $1 million plus. If you’re looking for comfortable family living and access to the country as well as the city, Castle Hill could well be for you. Castle Hill is popular with city commuters, families with older children and retirees – due in some part to the fact that there are few first home buyers in Castle Hill and people are often older by the time they buy in the area. Many choose Castle Hill for its tranquillity and proximity to rolling fields, but if it’s entertainment you’re after, there’s plenty here. Castle Towers is the drawcard for shoppers, located on the northern side of town, with two cinema complexes, several department stores and plenty of individual shops. Some say that food and dining out can be pricier – but if you’re willing to look you’ll find affordable options, including market-style fresh fish in the older shopping centres. On the western side of town, Castle Hill’s business parks hide away some great coffee – if you’re willing to look for it. Castle Hill doesn’t have a train station and although there are buses, many people travel by car. This leads to Castle Hill’s only weakness – heavy traffic can be an issue. Large landscaped blocks, towering modern homes and sweeping driveways; Castle Hill is the stuff dreams are made of. Whilst many residences are built for families, there are some townhouses and apartments for more compact living – including an apartment block neighbouring Castle Towers shopping centre. Is a lengthy drive home from the city worth the reward of living in Castle Hill? Many say yes. With large blocks, spacious homes and plenty of garden to tweak to your heart’s desire, Castle Hill is a unique place to live.
HOLROYD||
MOOREBANK||
SYDNEY OLYMPIC PARK||
AGNES BANKS||
SPRING FARM||
MASCOT|Pack your bags! Mascot’s flash high-density developments, busy cafes and quick-bite restaurants get the stamp of approval.|With all the multi-storey development going on in the neighbourhood, it’s safe to assume that Mascot’s on the rise… literally. The area has more than its fair share of apartments and is a popular choice for professionals who want a well-priced pad that’s still close to everything Sydney’s famous for – beaches, restaurants and shopping. It seems that’s everyone is aware of the charms of this little neighbourhood. Young, old; independent or in a family, there’s a meeting of new residents and long-timers in this neck of the woods. There’s a multicultural mix, bringing great flavours to the small restaurants that seem to be popping up each week. Mascot’s ideally positioned to reap all the benefits of Sydney’s inner-south renaissance. The surrounding suburbs of Alexandria and Rosebery may lay claim to hipster cafes, bars and restaurants, but Mascot’s proximity means it’s all still on the doorstep, without the parking problems. With bustling old-school Botany Road with its butchers, hardware stores and cake decorators at one end and the spotless Mascot station development, with zippy convenience store, sushi trains and cafes at the other, there’s plenty to choose from. Plus, there are public schools, day care centres and a 15-minute drive to Sydney’s best beaches. At the far end of Rosebery and Alexandria, Mascot is reaping the benefits of the rapid redevelopment flowing from Sydney’s Green Square development. The streetscape is changing from old terraces and 1950s-style brick homes to the new multi-dwelling developments that seem to be going up each week. On the ground, commuter-friendly cafes, take-away restaurants and supermarkets are adding a buzz to the air. All eyes may be on Alexandria and Rosebery, but Mascot’s redevelopment is adding another layer to the interesting community mix. With apartment blocks growing higher and higher, more living is coming down onto the streets, with cute little cafes and cheap eats. Further towards Botany Road, the old-school charm of family run businesses are still the life blood of the community.
GYMEA BAY||
BLAIR ATHOL||
SCOTLAND ISLAND||
LANSVALE||
CASTLEREAGH||
HOMEBUSH WEST||
BEVERLEY PARK||
LITTLE BAY||
MILPERRA||
PLUMPTON||
STANWELL TOPS||
BEROWRA HEIGHTS||
FORESTVILLE||
CASTLECRAG||
HASSALL GROVE||
WATTLE GROVE||
PENNANT HILLS||
AUSTINMER||
ELIZABETH BAY||
CARINGBAH SOUTH||
NORTH RYDE||
PUNCHBOWL||
SOUTH HURSTVILLE||
GIRRAWEEN||
BOW BOWING||
BAYVIEW||
MACQUARIE LINKS||
WISEMANS FERRY||
GLENORIE||
AUSTRAL||
WAHROONGA|Under 30 minutes drive to the city, with plenty of family amenities - Wahroonga just might be the place to set up home.|Leafy streets and beautiful parklands make Wahroonga the perfect place to settle down, with a family, a partner or solo. A 45 minute train ride (or less by car, on a good day) will have you in the city for work. Wahroonga’s comfortable homes are most popular with professionals and managers, while this neighbourhood’s broad range of amenities and leafy outlook make it as popular with families as it is with singles. Wahroonga Park encapsulates the leafy outlook, well-kept lawns and feature gardens Wahroonga is known for, all with an excellent cafe across the street. Needless to say it’s popular with groups of parents taking children out to make the most of the play equipment. On special occasions the rotunda can be booked for children’s parties and even weddings. Another park, the Glade, offers sporting grounds for tennis, football, cricket, basketball and more. Many well-regarded schools service Wahroonga including Knox Grammar, Abbotsleigh School for Girls, St Leo’s Catholic College, Wahroonga Adventist School, Wahroonga Public School and St Lucy’s School (for students with vision impairment and other needs) and St Edmund’s School (for students with disabilities). From workers cottages to stunning estate homes, Wahroonga has some absolute beauties. Stand-alone houses are the norm and there are some flats together with limited terrace houses. Many eras are represented and kept in excellent condition. And if you’d fancy a tennis court, that’s certainly possible too. If your dream neighbourhood involves tree-lined streets, plush lawns and impressive historic homes, Wahroonga is made for you. With charming restaurants and cafes, and more amenities in neighbouring suburbs; Wahroonga is really quite something. Add to that great parks, moments to a national park and plenty of schools and you’ve got a great home base.
ST ANDREWS||
MILSONS POINT||
CHESTER HILL||
PENRITH|As the last major suburb standing between metropolitan Sydney and the delights of the Blue Mountains National Park, Penrith locals have a lot of reasons to be proud.|With great access to education, affordable housing, excellent sporting facilities (Go Panthers!), shopping centres and a national park nearby, Penrith has a lot to offer no matter where you’re at in life. There must be something in the water. Penrith has produced more than its fair share of sporting personalities including plenty of cricketers and rugby league players, a world-class surfer, V8 driver, UFC fighter and Olympic diver. Today, a range of residents call Penrith home from just-moved-out folks to their grandparents. If you’ve long considered a tree-change but weren’t sure about the practicalities, Penrith may be exactly what you’re looking for. Littered with the perfect array of amenities – world-class sporting facilities (Penrith hosted not one but two events during the 2000 Sydney Olympics) shopping centres, medical care, primary, secondary and tertiary education, a museum and a performing arts complex alongside a national park that draws visitors from all over the world – Penrith is the postcode with it all. Still not convinced? Check out the number of casual eateries and entertainment options available. Low-maintenance apartment in a boutique block? Something with views? A fixer-upper? Penrith has them all. Affordability is the name of the game in this part of the world, so no matter what you’re looking for there’s a good chance you’ll not only find it, but (crucially) be able to afford it. On the whole, housing here is more likely to be on the older side so expect facilities accordingly. If affordability, an active lifestyle, premier access to public facilities and infrastructure alongside a spectacular national park sound like your cup of tea, Penrith is the place you’ve been looking for.
CRANEBROOK||
SHALVEY||
EVELEIGH||
ABBOTSBURY||
BARDEN RIDGE||
HARRINGTON PARK||
INGLEBURN||
MINTO HEIGHTS||
BALGOWLAH||
GREENFIELD PARK||
KELLYVILLE RIDGE||
NORTH SYDNEY|Some say North Sydney is the CBD’s younger, more laid-back sibling.|Perched on Sydney Harbour opposite the CBD, North Sydney is home to many businesses, in towering office buildings, together with residents, in towering apartment buildings. With its proximity to the city (walk, drive or take a train or bus over the Harbour Bridge, or take the tunnel if you prefer), North Sydney attracts suit-wearers who work either in the CBD, or North Sydney itself. At its centre, North Sydney has the feel of a business district. Although it has good cafes and bars, come the weekend it doesn’t quite buzz – and that’s not necessarily a bad thing. For recreation, there’s the ever-popular (with tourists) Luna Park, and North Sydney Olympic Pool – not to mention some hilly walks around the foreshore. Locals are lucky to have Kirribilli Markets on their doorstep – a fortnightly feast of upcycled clothes, new fashion, local designers, food, drink and live entertainment in a pretty spectacular setting. North Sydney is incredibly easy to access by bus, train and car – you could even ride your bike across the bridge to the city if you’d like. North Sydney echoes Sydney city in its glittering office towers, harbour views and army of people in suits. It’s younger than the city though, so lacks the more historical buildings, and benefits from better planning. Apartment blocks offer options at different price points from one bedroom set-ups to exquisite penthouse entertainers. For city proximity, outstanding views and the ability to walk across the Harbour Bridge to work, North Sydney is a stand-out suburb. While there are schools available, you’ll be hard-pressed to find a backyard. That said, there are plenty of beautiful green spaces backing onto the harbour, and one of the country’s best amusement parks to keep you entertained.
DENISTONE||
CARSS PARK||
KINGSWOOD||
MALABAR||
DOLANS BAY||
SMITHFIELD||
BAULKHAM HILLS|If you’re looking for space to breathe, Baulkham Hills could be for you.|Baulkham Hills is just over 30 kilometres north-west of the CBD, making it a reasonable commute to work or uni. Religion is a way of life here and community ties are strong. Workers commute by car or bus to the city, Parramatta, North Shore and Kellyville. There’s no train line yet but the North West Rail Link is in planning stages. Norwest Business Park is a big employer as is the education sector. On weekends you’ll find residents in the many parks playing, jogging and even koala-spotting. The mall of choice is Stocklands Baulkham Hills Shopping Centre while busy Windsor Road has a typical suburban line-up of local shops. When it comes to dining, Italian restaurants reigns supreme, but Chef Lee Chinese Restaurant is a favourite with locals. Cafes tend to stick to tried and tested favourites, and kids are always welcome at Baulkham Hills’ eateries. A highly anticipated train line is still a way off so unless you’ve got wheels you’ll be making friends with bus drivers. There are many schools to choose from including the academically selective Baulkham Hills High and St Michael's Catholic Primary School. Big houses on big blocks are the norm and the many swimming pools dotted through backyards are further signs of a booming area. Apartments are also in high demand and there are many new developments to choose from. Baulkham Hills’ proximity to arterial roads makes commuting to Sydney or Parramatta a cinch. In-demand schools are on your doorstep and there are plenty of parks. A strong sense of community, hospitals and easy shopping make Baulkham Hills a popular choice for families.
ALEXANDRIA|Shaking off its industrial past, Alexandria now boasts plenty of patisseries, restaurants, apartments and parks.|Not too long ago, Alexandria hummed to the sound of heavy industry – canneries, brickworks and Mack trucks were commonplace – and its transformation couldn’t be more dramatic. Today, the streets are packed with smart Sydneysiders, who flock to the suburb for the latest brunch spot, homewares store or picnics in the lush Sydney Park. With a hardworking past and a promising future, Alexandria offers up a vibrant mix of homes, and with it, an interesting community of young and old. The sky-high apartment complexes attract investors, professionals and young singles. Tucked away from the busy main roads, smaller streets are home to families and retirees, many of whom have been here for generations. There’s no mistaking the happy caffeinated buzz in the air in Alexandria. Home to some of Sydney’s most popular cafes, the population almost doubles in size on weekends as people from all over Sydney queue to get into the latest cafes. It’s a shopper’s haven, too, with outlet stores sitting shoulder to shoulder with high-end furniture showrooms and antiques auction houses. Sydney Park offers up a trike-friendly kids’ area, barbeques and an off-leash area for furry friends. While there’s no train station servicing the postcode, it’s walkable from Mascot and Green Square, plus is just a quick 15-minute bus trip from Central Station. There’s no denying Alexandria’s industrial history; and part of the suburb’s strength has been to embrace a sense of the past into new builds. Old factories may have been converted into cafes and apartments but remanents are to be found on every block – like the old Sydney brickworks in Sydney Park and The Ground’s Cafe’s pie factory facade. Dig deeper, and you’ll stumble across one of Alexandria’s pretty, tree-lined streets, which boast charming Victorian-style homes and cottages. So whether you’re a macchiato, decaf or chai person, there’s something for everyone in Alexandria’s cafe-led revolution. The coming-of-age transformation has made this inner-city suburb a magnate for investors and homebuyers, offering plenty of choices in larger family homes or single-room units. With the addition of a bike path that connects to the city, it’s a suburb to spend a little time in.
KYLE BAY||
AUBURN|There’s never a dull moment in bustling Auburn. From shopping, to adventures in the park or along the river, there’s plenty to see and do.|Auburn is renowned as one of Australia’s most multicultural communities, and the local government makes a point of celebrating the many cultures that come together to make Auburn. Auburn is a half-hour drive (on a good day) to Sydney CBD where most residents tend to work in city offices. Renowned as a multicultural hub, this friendly, family-focused neighbourhood brings together people from all over the world, including families from China, Vietnam and Korea. Auburn is not only home to Auburn Central Shopping Centre – offering all of the usual shops plus a gymnasium, it’s also home to a Homemaker Megamall, where you can experiment with interior design ideas to your heart’s content. There’s also a Costco on Parramatta Road. If the little ones aren’t as impressed with lounge shopping as you are, head over to Auburn Botanic Gardens and Fauna Reserve where they can run around the park and visit some furry critters. For rainy days, there’s a Readings Cinema. There are plenty of schools in Auburn including a variety of public, private and religious schools. Whether your taste is for fancy penthouses, huge family homes with room for the in-laws, or a fixer-upper, there’s something for you in Auburn. If you prefer to move straight into something brand new, there are plenty of new developments happening too with townhouses and apartments up for grabs. You may be able to buy off-plan. If you’re after a place to renovate yourself – there are some original double-brick homes in need of some TLC. Proximity to the city and a growing and changing community make Auburn an intriguing place to settle down. Within 30 minutes of the city and offering plenty of amenities for families, and a range of housing options, it’s certainly worth investigating.
LONG POINT||
CHATSWOOD|With a sprawling business district, shops galore and plenty of entertainment and specialty food outlets, you’ll never tire of exploring Chatswood.|A busy little district, Chatswood is abuzz with people on their way somewhere – whether it’s to the theatre, dinner, shopping, or the gym. More studious types flow into the library – it was one of the first in NSW and is now one of the largest in the country. Only about half of the residents of Chatswood were born in Australia, so you’ll find Asian grocery stores, a fabulous range of cuisines and plenty to learn from your neighbours. Spend a moment watching Chatswood’s constant procession of people and you’ll spot mums and dads wheeling prams, friends chattering and many more friendly folk, all travelling at a fair pace. After Australia, Chatswood residents are most likely to have been born in China, South Korea, Hong Kong, England or Taiwan. This mix of nationalities is evident in the broad cuisine and arts offerings. Several international brands (CSR, AbiGroup, Smith’s, Pepsi and more) have major offices in Chatswood, so by day, you’ll see plenty of people in suits seeking out coffee. If you consider shopping a competition sport, Chatswood is your Olympic Park. With Chatswood Chase and Westfield providing the main arenas, Lemon Grove and Mandarin Centre reward those willing to expand the field and several shopping strips provide entertainment along the way. The Melody Markets (Thursday and Friday in the mall) provide variety with food and craft stalls and live music. The beautiful concourse, home to the library, concert hall and theatre provides a modern piazza with art spaces, restaurants and cafes. Chinese, Japanese and Korean restaurants and cafes are plentiful, dotted with some fantastic BBQ and Italian cafes, and all of the usual franchises. Chatswood is well-serviced by trains and is a hub for buses. All year round you’ll find arts and theatre events, and no less than two dance companies (not to mention The Willoughby Symphony Orchestra) call Chatswood home. Willoughby Spring Festival is held annually. Many Catholics live in Chatswood and this is reflected in the available boys and girls private high schools and co-ed primary school. There are also public primary and high schools. Whilst the Chatswood CBD is committed to glittering towers, shopping and eating, there are plenty of treasures to be found just a skip away. Charming Californian bungalows, huge blocks with double storey family homes, period and federation abodes, and even the odd sandstone cottage offer rooms for everyone in your family. If you’re looking for a smaller package, there are stacks of units and towers of luxury apartments offering everything from basic amenity to fabulous entertainer. Just 10km from Sydney CBD, Chatswood is a city of its own. While many people commute to Sydney for work, plenty commute to Chatswood too. A rich history has gifted Chatswood a mix of housing rarely found in one suburb – from apartments to grand homes. Much of the beauty of Chatswood is in its diversity – not only the various cultures of its residents, but the mix of architecture, arts and history. From the instantly-recognisable Westfield to the altogether unique Concourse, Chatswood has a place to make everyone feel right at home. Chosen by some of Australia’s largest companies as their headquarters, it may just be the perfect HQ for you.
WARRIEWOOD||
SOUTH GRANVILLE||
KENSINGTON|Delivering a high distinction on the location test, there’s a lot going on in this over-achieving neighbourhood.|Kensington is best known as the home of the University of New South Wales (UNSW) and the National Institute of Dramatic Art (NIDA); but this little postcode’s appeal doesn’t begin and end with hitting the books. Bordering Centennial Park, minutes from the city centre and a brisk thirty-minute walk from Sydney’s prized coastline and beaches, it’s a place that really delivers on lifestyle – for families, students and single professionals. In the past, Kensington was a real a university-town, with a young, mobile population. But its unbeatable location has started to attract young families and professionals to the area. It’s a place with a vibrant, dynamic and ever-changing community who affectionately refer to the postcode as “Kenso”. School may be in for many of the residents of this university suburb, but there’s more than a degree at UNSW or NIDA on offer. Anzac Parade, Kensington’s main thoroughfare, is the place to go in search of well-priced and authentic Asian flavours, including Malaysian, Thai, Chinese and Indonesian feasts. The shop-filled, bustling high street also connects the residents to the city on a brief 20-minute bus ride. Bordering the Royal Randwick Racecourse, Moore Park and Centennial Park, Kensington offers plenty of wide, open spaces, but keen golfers will devote their weekend mornings perfecting a hole-in-one on the Australian Golf Club’s expertly manicured green. Running off the main drag, Kensington’s charming, tree-lined streets boast wide footpaths and green spaces – in fact, the suburb was modelled on the London suburb from which it takes its name. And despite the proliferation of high- and medium-density dwellings, there’s a real sense light and space in the area. Further from Anzac Parade, you’ll find larger double-storey Federation style homes, while the area’s most historic structure, the Sacred Heart Monastery, is a beautiful example of 1895 Gothic style. Kensington is the little suburb that could. The well-planned streets, huge swathes of green parklands and countless configurations of housing means its vibrant streets offer something for every house hunter. Universities, colleges, schools and an up-and-coming high street clustered with Asian eateries and stores create a happy hum throughout the community.
CARLTON||
BARDWELL PARK||
LONGUEVILLE||
INGLESIDE||
KEMPS CREEK||
WOLLI CREEK||
DEAN PARK||
RHODES|A shopping centre complete with an IKEA, picturesque river frontages, warehouses and offices are all packed into Rhodes.|Just 16km west of the CBD, a train from Rhodes station will have you at work in 22 minutes, while a (very) good run in the car should have you there in about 20 minutes. It seems that all roads lead to Rhodes – there are few suburbs in Sydney that could claim to be more multicultural. Your neighbours might be Chinese, Indian, Korean or of European descent, are likely to live in an apartment and only one in two families will have children. For a small suburb, Rhodes has a rich history. It’s actually named after the property of an early resident’s grandmother, Rhodes Hall in England. It’s changed over the years from heavy industrial manufacturing, to chemical manufacturing and now offices and residences. Rhodes to this day has many facets. East of Concord Road, you’ll find beautiful family homes on the Parramatta River. Not many mind you, but some. On the other side of Concord Road between the road and the train line, offices are set up amongst warehouses and amenities including a community centre, aged care hostel, and the fire station, which is one of the last in metropolitan Sydney staffed by volunteers. Concord and Ryde fire stations also operate in Rhodes. The western side of Rhodes was once chemical plants, but is now home to Rhodes Shopping Centre, with an IKEA, supermarkets and plenty of shopping. Nearby is a Readings cinema, apartment blocks and parks. Until the mid-80s, the western side of Rhodes was taken up by chemical manufacturing plants. To this day it’s a bad idea to fish in the area. Once the land was cleaned up it allowed for the shopping centre, and high-density housing. Good news if you hate mowing the law: there are very few stand-alone houses to be found in Rhodes. It’s apartments as far as the eye can see. Buses, trains, cycle ways and roadways: there are plenty of ways to get to Rhodes. If you’re keen on apartment living, river views and a commute of under half an hour to the city, this is the place for you. Housing is probably only going to increase in density though, so keep that in mind if you crave wide open spaces. 
WEST PENNANT HILLS|Supermarkets? Check. Specialist services? Check. State forest? Check! West Pennant Hills offers a slice of the good life.|Just 25 kilometres from the city, this suburb offers the best of both worlds: metropolitan amenities with beautiful bush views. Of course, West Pennant Hills isn’t only home to adults, but here the kids are more likely to be teenagers than toddlers. And when it comes to work, more than half the locals here are employed as professionals or managers. With a generally older population, the volume of schools in West Pennant Hills is a little lower than some other suburbs around Sydney. In fact, there’s just one primary school and one Steiner Rudolph school (although there are several pre-schools and kindergartens). Got kids? Fear not – the surrounding postcodes have several more primary schools and high schools, both public and private. At the junction of Pennant Hills Road and Castle Hill Road you’ll find major conveniences such as a Coles supermarket alongside a newsagent, bottle shop and other local shops. This suburb is home to a lot of parks but no summary of this postcode is complete without mention of the beautiful Cumberland State Forrest, which sits in its middle. If you’re a fan of public transport, beware – West Pennant Hills has no train station of its own; however, it is well serviced by a bus network. Hoping for a maintenance-friendly apartment? You might need to look elsewhere. There are only about 80 units, flats and apartments in the whole of West Pennant Hills. If a traditional free-standing home is more your style, then you’re in luck: more than 90% of homes here fit that description. Old, new or somewhere in between, houses in this postcode come in every age, shape and style. Big houses, parklands just a few minutes away, lots of services and easy access via the M2 Motorway – West Pennant Hills residents have a lot of reasons to love their neighbourhood. Come the weekend though, you have a tough decision - exploring the forest or going for a round of golf?
WOODBINE||
BLACKTOWN|With residential, business and entertainment spaces galore, Blacktown just seems to go on forever.|The suburb of Blacktown is located within the City of Blacktown, which encompasses over 40 other suburbs. Blacktown (the suburb) is well known for its multiculturalism, unique attractions including a wildlife park, Wet n Wild theme park and the state’s last remaining drive-in. Blacktown has a colourful past, and quite often, a colourful present. Troublemakers are in the minority though, and Blacktown is home to some of the hardest-working people you’re ever likely to meet – many of them making a new start in life in Australia. Many Blacktown residents commute to Sydney for work, while others own their businesses or work in the Blacktown CBD. Blacktown is popular with families. It’s also a multicultural suburb with locals hailing from across the globe, including India, the Philippines, China and Sudan. Blacktown’s main shopping centre is Westpoint, and there are plenty of other shopping strips adjacent to the shopping centre and train station, or dotted around the suburb. Blacktown megacentre is popular with homemakers. In addition to trains, Blacktown is also serviced by buses. Each Sunday the drive-in cinema converts to a market, with second-hand goods, fruit and vegetables on offer. If you’re after a larger market, the biggest in the Southern Hemisphere is in Parklea, about a 13 minute drive away. Wet’n’Wild water theme park has recently opened in Blacktown, and Sydney Motorsports Park at Eastern Creek isn’t far away for more thrills and spills. If you’re after something more sedate, Chang Lai Yuan Gardens is Blacktown’s Chinese garden, created with its Chinese sister city, the City of Liaocheng. Thespians and arts-lovers will enjoy Blacktown Arts Centre’s exhibitions, performances and workshops. Blacktown has a population of over 40,000 and is serviced by many public and high schools, the Coreen school for children with learning difficulties, two Catholic primary and two Catholic high schools. There is also Tyndale Christian School, a private Christian school for children in kindergarten to year 12. Blacktown runs the gamut from affordable housing to huge family homes. Start out with a fibro cottage and redevelop into a couple of townhouses. If you’re family is growing, you’ll find plenty of five bedroom masterpieces to keep everyone happy. If you’re after a smaller package, there are plenty of units too. Blacktown is a time capsule of home styles throughout the years – fibro to cladding, brick, and modern townhouses and family residences - on offer at a multitude of price-points. Whether you’re after a first home or an expansive family mansion, Blacktown has a home (potentially among the gum trees) for you. A 35 minute drive (on a good day) from Sydney CBD, Blacktown is, relatively speaking, a more affordable suburb for homebuyers. With some remaining bush, a Blacktown summer’s day is punctuated by the chirp of cicadas, the sway of eucalypts and relentless sun (a pool is not a bad idea on these days). The Blacktown CBD offers plenty of shopping options, and a cosmopolitan array of eats, drinks and characters. There’s plenty to do in Blacktown, from cinema, shopping and fun parks, to bushwalking and a myriad of sports. Well set-up for families, Blacktown has plenty of education and entertaining facilities.
SOUTH PENRITH||
GILEAD||
SOUTH COOGEE||
GUILDFORD||
MATRAVILLE||
WILLOUGHBY||
ILLAWONG||
GREYSTANES||
NORTHBRIDGE||
PALM BEACH||
HUNTERS HILL|Jutting out into Sydney’s glittering harbour, this little waterside suburb boasts more than just a pretty setting.|There’s a real sense of history in Hunters Hill; from its heritage-listed homes to its exclusive private schools and tight-knit community. Bordered by the Parramatta River on one side and Lane Cove River on the other, there’s certainly plenty of water views to share. Most of the postcode is made up of families with older children in high school or university.  But don’t be surprised if you bump into a BRW Rich-Lister because this is the place where the wealthy come to roost. There are also plenty of single professionals who enjoy the proximity of the city and the relaxed, rarefied lifestyle. With a boatshed-dotted foreshore, patches of natural parkland and high-end cafes and bookstores, Hunters Hill offers up the good life. Practical day-to-day provisions and groceries are all found in the cluster of shops at the Ryde Road and Gladesville Road intersection.  Buses are swift and frequent from this spot too, while ferries offer picturesque commuting to the CBD in under half an hour. But it’s the pretty parks that attract most attention. Clarkes Point Reserve boasts a Sydney Harbour Bridge vista, and there’s always a stroll down Woolwich Pier for a slice of village-like atmosphere. Families are almost spoiled for choice for schooling: with Hunters Hill High School, AAGPS Catholic boys' secondary school, St Joseph's College, Boronia Park Public School, Hunters Hill Primary School and Villa Maria Primary Schools are all local to the area. Honey hued sandstone cottages set in landscaped gardens along generously sized roads… it’s just another street in Hunters Hill. Property in this area is prized for over-sized blocks so close to the CBD and the residents certainly make use of the land – this is a postcode boasts plenty of multi-storey, expansive family homes.  A few low-density apartment buildings, usually in Art Deco style, are also found throughout the neighbourhood. Hunters Hill is a forever-home postcode. The stunning surrounds, schools and setting make it a place to grow up and grow old in. The cost of living may be prestige, but with water views and parklands so close to the CBD, it’s a price many are willing to pay.
GUILDFORD WEST||
EAST KILLARA||
DENISTONE EAST||
ASHFIELD|Bustling Ashfield is perfect for folks on the go, with proximity to the CBD, and abodes from one-bedroom-units to grand Victorian mansions.|Ashfield has a bustling, multicultural community. If you’re going places, Ashfield is a great base: criss-crossed by major arterials, well-serviced by public transport and just fifteen minutes from the city (on a good day). Ashfield’s proximity to the CBD makes it popular with professionals, while its facilities and history reflect a multicultural community of families and retirees. While some people live and work in Ashfield (largely in retail as very little industrial businesses remain in the area), the majority of people travel outside Ashfield to work. While many people living in Ashfield still drive to work, use of public transport is relatively high. Ashfield is serviced by a train station (on the airport line), and buses to Burwood, Bondi Junction, Drummoyne, Hurstville and more. Ashfield Mall is the main shopping centre and on Parramatta Road you’ll find more shops. Shops also line Liverpool Road including Asian restaurants and Asian supermarkets. Ashfield is serviced by three primary schools (Ashfield Public, St Vincents (Catholic school) and Yeo Park Infants) and three high schools: Ashfield Boys High School, Bethlehem College (Catholic girls school) and De La Salle College (Catholic boys school). Some say variety is the spice of life, and if you’re looking for variety, you needn’t look any further than the streets of Ashfield. Beautiful Victorian homes form part of a historic1800s strip, whilst streets away, units crowd together in inelegant, but effective clumps. Despite some being under flight paths, Ashfield properties are in demand due to the suburb’s proximity to the city. For proximity to the CBD and (relative) affordability, together with accessibility to many areas of Sydney via several arterials, you can’t go past Ashfield. You’ll have your choice of abodes from grand mansions to efficient apartments – and neighbours from many cultures. Public transport is plentiful, popular and effective.
PRESTONS||
MACQUARIE PARK||
WATERFALL||
LA PEROUSE||
PENDLE HILL||
CLEMTON PARK||
NORTH NARRABEEN||
BELMORE|Close to the CBD and the best of the inner west, Belmore is worth exploring.|Connected by Canterbury and Punchbowl Roads and neighbouring Lakemba and Campsie, Belmore has no problems passing the location test And it’s tops for diversity, too, thanks to the unique blend of cultures and backgrounds of the residents that call Belmore home. By and large, Belmore is a youthful suburb, with the under-35s making up the largest proportion of residents in the area. But hot on their heels are the forty-somethings and up as well as families of school-aged children. Food and family are intertwined in Belmore, with many family-run restaurants found within the postcode, including Chinese, Lebanese, Greek, Thai and Italian. Most can be found down the busy and vibrant Burwood Road, close to the train station, which connects to the Bankstown Line. A swift turn down Leylands Parade and you’ll find yourself in the famous Belmore Sportsground, once the home of the legendary Canterbury Bulldogs. There are plenty of schooling options too, including St Josephs Primary School, Belmore South Public School, Belmore North Public School, Belmore Boys High School, and All Saints Grammar. Pockets of Belmore are treated to charming twentieth-century Federation and interwar California Bungalow homes, which are slowly being snapped up by savvy investors and home renovators. Larger blocks also allow for more modern builds for families. For singles, you’ll find new apartment blocks and an interesting mix of Art Deco units, too. The beauty of Belmore lies in all the possibilities it offers – great food, interesting cultures, a sense of history and fantastic public transport, plus a great selection of schools, too. It’s a place in the process of transformation, from the high street to the community.
FOREST LODGE||
ROSEVILLE||
TURRAMURRA||
SOUTH WENTWORTHVILLE||
CARTWRIGHT||
ERSKINE PARK||
KOGARAH||
PORT BOTANY||
DAVIDSON||
ST LEONARDS||
THIRROUL||
BLAKEHURST||
ROSEMEADOW||
EASTERN CREEK||
LEETS VALE||
LLANDILO||
MILLER||
DEE WHY|Delightful Dee Why has a friendly community, good amenities and homes ranging from compact units to sprawling houses.|Dee Why is just 18 km north-east of the city so there’s time for a swim or surf after work. When locals aren’t hanging out at beach-view cafes and bars they are exercising in the great outdoors. Career-minded people who love a short commute to work call Dee Why home, as do singles who are happy to house-share with friends. Families love having access to good schools and the beach. Locals are most likely to use buses or their car to get to work. Shops catering for outdoor activities neighbour boutiques. Busy Pittwater Road has pharmacies, camping stores, and health food stores, while Dee Why Grand Shopping Centre has several supermarkets, fresh food, hair salons and more. Dee Why is known for its surfing culture and rugby clubs and residents love exercising outdoors. Joggers make use of the beach or many parks, and Dee Why Lagoon is a perfect place to clear your head. Restaurants capitalise on their natural surroundings and have a strong focus on fresh food. Deck Bar and Dining is known for reasonably priced meals, live bands and a gallery featuring the work of local artists. The Strand, with jaw-dropping ocean views and cosmopolitan vibe, is where you’ll find the cream of the cafe crop. Public transport consists solely of buses that service the CBD, North Shore and Pittwater and beyond. During the working week express buses run to the city and back. There are three primary schools: Dee Why Public School, Fisher Road Special School and St Kevin's Catholic Primary School, while St Luke's Grammar School, an independent school, offers pre-kindergarten to Year 12 classes. If you’re looking for a unit you’re in luck – more than three quarters of all dwellings in Dee Why are flats or apartments. House hunters have a choice of older-style homes, renovated masterpieces and new houses so there’s something to suit all buyers. Dee Why is extremely popular with buyers, especially those seeking a prized waterview. Buyers pay big bucks for homes near the beach but there are plenty of properties without water views at more reasonable prices. Having glorious Dee Why Beach on the doorstep and quick links to the CBD offers the best of both worlds. Amenities are plentiful and the neighbourhood is friendly and outdoorsy.
KILLARNEY HEIGHTS||
PYMBLE||
NORTH BONDI||
NORMANHURST||
WILEY PARK||
TAMARAMA||
SEFTON||
LILYVALE||
GREEN VALLEY||
CLARENDON||
HAMMONDVILLE||
POTTS POINT|Potts Point is bordered on two sides by Elizabeth Bay and Woolloomooloo Bay. This is the place to be for making the most of Sydney’s spectacular waterfront.|Glittering views, fabulous cafes and a touch of infamous Kings Cross culture, all in arguably Sydney’s best location – Potts Point homes are enduringly popular, for good reason. The Potts Point community brings together people at many stages of life; but seldom families with children. Near the pocket of Potts Point that borders vibrant King’s Cross live younger residents enjoying the proximity to evening hotspots. Closer to the water with the leafy streets and cafe lifestyle come more mature locals. If you’ve always wanted to live walking distance to a cocktail bar, an Asian restaurant with its own cult following, a contender for the city’s best coffee, a five-star day spa, a bookstore, a fishmonger, a karaoke bar and a florist, you’ll be hard pressed to find a suburb more suitable than Potts Point. With a high-activity train station at one end, a ferry wharf at the other and the length covered by a bus network of four different lines, it’s a highly serviced suburb too. Of course, no premium postcode would be complete without a handful of supermarkets and this one has all the big names. You’ll find a Coles at the Kings Cross end of Darlinghurst Road and a Woolworths about midway down Macleay Street. Looking for a traditional freestanding house? Patience must be your virtue if you’re looking in Potts Point - once residents get into this perfectly positioned postcode they’re not quick to leave. Apartments are more plentiful including everything from Art Deco studios (the highest density of Art Deco architecture in Australia can be found in Potts Point) to A-List-worthy penthouse entertainers. Potts Point locals have a lot of reasons to love the postcode. Despite totalling just 0.7 square kilometres, it’s packed with restaurants, cafes and nightlife amongst an impressive collection of Art Deco-era architecture. This, coupled with its proximity to the CBD (three kilometres or a five-minute train trip), makes Potts Point popular with fans of apartment living.
SURRY HILLS|Fantastic restaurants, tree-lined streets and right next door to the city. Oh, Surry Hills, surely you’re a mirage?|Hilly parts of Surry Hills were pronounced ‘inhospitable’ in the 1800s. How times have changed. These days, beautiful old terraces, village lifestyle and a walk to the city make Surry Hills’ homes in demand. Gathered around tables at trendy cafes, pouring over books in the library, power-walking home from work, there are plenty of people in Surry Hills, and they’re all on a mission, whether it be to get to brunch, dinner or the pub (or work in the city). Suits and ties or trendy attire are the norm, and you’ll rarely see a pram in these parts, or a walking stick for that matter. With many of Sydney’s best restaurants, bars and pubs lining Crown Street and surrounds, Surry Hills is possibly the best location for food-obsessed Sydneysiders to live. Eat out for breakfast, lunch and dinner, at award-winning restaurants like Billy Kwongs, up-and-comers like Bishop Sessa, beautiful bakeries like Bourke Street Bakery and for dessert, join the line outside Gelato Messina. Make your visit during the day and lick your dripping ice cream under the falling leaves at Shannon Reserve. Sublime. Most Surry Hills residents walk to work, and Central Station borders the suburb, but cycle paths are getting better and there is (controversial) discussion about a future tram line. Terraces are the predominant form of housing in Surry Hills and they’re lovely. Different colours, sizes and shapes, varying degrees of dedication to historical decoration and unique gardens mean that although they’re all (of course) similar, no two are the same. The balance of homes are apartments and warehouse conversions, with the odd sandstone masterpiece to tempt you. Scratch beneath the surface of Surry Hills’ ultra-cool surface and you’ll find a real community with a village feel. With some of the best-quality eating establishments in Sydney, and a serious concentration of them, Surry Hills is a great place to visit and an even better place to live.
GLEBE||
CONCORD||
BEXLEY||
EASTGARDENS||
TREGEAR||
PYRMONT|Home to Sydney’s famous Fish Market and a plethora of restaurants, Pyrmont is deliciously well-located alongside the city centre.|If you think living less than two kilometres from Sydney’s CBD with great views and eateries galore sounds perfect, you’re not alone. Pyrmont is Australia’s most densely populated suburb. This incredibly popular postcode is home to lots (and lots) of people, but rarely families with children or elderly folk. Students and professionals pass in apartment building corridors. Smartly positioned alongside Sydney’s CBD (it’s separated only by Cockle Bay, which can be crossed via a pedestrian bridge) with five light rail stations and two bus routes, Pyrmont may win the title of Sydney’s most convenient location. Pyrmont locals love to live it up and it’s the perfect base, with a range of parks and recreational activities, bars and eateries that range from tiny corner cafes to prestigious wait-list restaurants and Star City casino. Daily conveniences are available here too with a supermarket, bottle shop, newsagent and other such necessities located in the centre of the suburb. And let’s not forget that famous Fish Market. If you have your heart set on a freestanding house, perhaps Pyrmont isn’t the place for you – there are just 12 houses left in the whole suburb. More than 93% of the homes in Pyrmont are apartments and they come in a variety of sizes and styles, from simple studios to enviable penthouses. Pyrmont has been named Australia’s most densely populated suburb, so surely that many people can’t be wrong? With enviable infrastructure, spectacular views and local businesses made for enjoying, if you work in the city or better yet nearby, this is the locale to add to your wishlist. Bon appetit!
DARLINGTON||
MANLY VALE||
ELDERSLIE||
MIDDLE COVE||
COWAN||
WAKELEY||
COOGEE|Dick Reserve? Wedding Cake Island? This isn’t the start of a joke: they’re just two of the landmarks that call this quintessential Australian suburb home.|Coogee is arguably the ultimate location in Sydney – perfectly located alongside a spectacular beach yet a convenient distance to the Airport, Centennial Park and the well-equipped Westfield Bondi. If you’re a public transport fan, you should know: Coogee is only for the bus-savvy. Thanks to its proximity to the beach, Coogee is a place for those who believe in the importance of work/life balance. No matter the time of year (or even time of day) there’s camaraderie to be had with your neighbours enjoying the delights of the shoreline. Fitness fanatics, families, and even more mature residents can all be found feeling the sand between their toes. Coogee is undoubtedly all about the beach. When residents aren’t by the water, you’ll likely find them in one of the many eateries in the area which sports a sensational mash-up of organic snacks for the health-conscious and the ubiquitous fish and chip and burger joints. The hub of activity in the warmer months wanes to more local traffic at other times of the year as committed residents brace the cooler weather and make the most of the location. Location, location, location might be the common catchcry of the real estate industry, but when you have that in spades (as Coogee does), the order of the day becomes views, views, views. Apartment living is as common as more traditional houses with demand for housing in Coogee at a high. Expect new buildings and beautifully renovated older homes (untouched gems from years gone by are rare). For the famous Australian beachside lifestyle, laidback eating and drinking with a community feeling thrown in, you can’t look past Coogee. Add to that beautiful views alongside homes made for enjoying the location and you’ve got something pretty amazing. At just 8kms from the city, Coogee is one for the list.
LIBERTY GROVE||
CAMBRIDGE PARK||
MARRICKVILLE|Artistic, bohemian and diverse, Marrickville is a jewel in Sydney’s inner-west, playing home to people of all ages and varied cultural backgrounds.|Several shopping options, multiple public and private schools, a number of religious hubs and excellent public transport infrastructure make Marrickville a great place to call home. Diversity doesn’t do Marrickville justice. Here, long-time Australians mingle with recent immigrants creating a vibrant community. People of all generations – some with families and some without – live here. Why have just one train station when you can have three? Yes, Marrickville residents enjoy three train stations including the junction that is Sydenham. If that weren’t enough, Marrickville also boasts multiple bus services that serve every main road in the suburb. With just 5km between Marrickville and Sydney Airport, it’s clear this suburb has transport covered. You’d also be hard pressed to think of something you need that can’t be bought here. There are two Woolworths supermarkets and an Aldi to shop for essentials, as well as countless butchers, bakers and grocery stores. Specialty stores may actually be Marrickville’s specialty because they’re here in volumes. Of course, it would be remiss not to mention the Marrickville Organic Food and Farmers’ Markets – held every Sunday at the Addison Community Centre. When locals look to eat out they have many excellent options with Japanese, Vietnamese, Greek, Italian, Spanish, Modern Australian and so many more to select from. Worth noting however is that this suburb is in the flight path for Sydney Airport, which does have a curfew, but planes can sometimes interrupt conversations. Subdivision of the area now known as Marrickville began in 1855 and happily there are still buildings in the area from this era. Easy-care apartment buildings are plentiful, but if it’s history you’re looking for you’re more likely to find it in one of the many freestanding or terrace style houses. Miners’ cottages, post-war, Federation – they can all be found in Marrickville. No matter your age, what language you speak or your life stage, you’re not just welcome but well catered for in Marrickville. In this suburb, homes are varied, shopping is prolific, infrastructure is ideal and schools are abundant. Together with excellent recreational and entertainment options this suburb belongs on every house-hunter’s list.
BASS HILL||
COLLAROY||
HELENSBURGH||
RYDALMERE||
NEWTOWN|There should be more songs about Newtown. Village lifestyle, arts, families and professionals combine to make a truly unique community.|Newtown’s long history has seen factory workers, immigrants, artists and professionals call it home. The result is a thriving community with plenty to do and see. Beautiful terraces tastefully decorated by young professionals sit alongside party share-houses inhabited by energetic university students. Add some bohemian-chic young families and you’ve got a delightful village. Over 17,000 people live in Newtown and after English, the most common languages spoken at home are Greek, Mandarin, Cantonese, Spanish and Thai. Within Newtown and surrounding suburbs you’ll find the state’s highest concentration of theatres and art spaces. Newtown School of Performing Arts attracts budding performers – don't be surprised to come across a student practicing clarinet in the local park, amongst the frolicking dogs. Many artistic Newtown inhabitants have gone onto achieve success including The Whitlams, Frenzal Rhomb, Christine Anu and Monica Trapaga (so don’t shush that clarinet player so soon). Newtown Station is close to King Street and on your walk home you’ll find plenty of affordable, excellent restaurants and cafes. Of a Saturday, Newtown Market is a hub for arts and crafts and buskers. The rows of terrace houses in Newtown contribute to its character. For the most part, new developments are in the vein of the terrace house style, both for aesthetics and due to the limited amount of space available. North Newtown holds many of the historic jewels, and can be pricier than other parts of Newtown. For those on a budget, an apartment is a good choice, and some truly unique apartments have been created including those installed in disused silos at the old Crago mill. Newtown is home to both artists and professionals and has (thus far) struck a balance between retaining the live gigs, interesting people and fantastic lifestyle which attract people to it, and the late night noise complaints and conservatism which can kill off a bohemian suburb’s edge. If you move in next to the pub, just make sure you take earplugs – it was there first after all.
CABRAMATTA WEST||
CLAYMORE||
WOODPARK||
FIDDLETOWN||
SANS SOUCI||
NORTH WILLOUGHBY||
CANOELANDS||
SEAFORTH|Named after a Scottish Loch, Seaforth is much more warm and inviting than its Northern Hemisphere counterpart.|Part of the powerhouse Northern Beaches region of Sydney, Seaforth is admired for its great swathes of water thanks to its vantage point over Sugarloaf Bay and Middle Harbour. To the north sits the Garigal National Park and just across Spit  With wide blocks, parklands and playgrounds, Seaforth caters for families like no other suburb. Over half of the population here have children, while the rest of the community is made up of retirees and empty nesters, who enjoy the leafy neighbourhood and gentle atmosphere. Keen anglers are up early in the morning in Seaforth to drop a line into the shimmering bay and nod good morning to paddle boarders and kayakers. Lycra-clad cyclists sail through the streets and are first to fill the local coffee shops.  The Seaforth Shopping centre, off Sydney Road, hums with activity, while the parks and playgrounds begin to fill with children’s sports and fun. This is a car-centric suburb but buses do run along Manly Road and through the district connecting to surrounding suburbs and the city. Seaforth Public School is well attended and there are plenty of private options nearby. From the water, Seaforth’s hillside abodes are commanding and impressive. Being a relatively young suburb, which really hit it stride in the post-war years, Seaforth has an interesting mix of weatherboard, sandstone and heritage-listed homes which sit alongside modern-day mansions that stretch out across the harbour. The impressive views, however, tend to be matched by a million dollar price tag. Looking for your family forever home? You might just find it in Seaforth – the only problem is people hold on tightly to real estate here and competition is fierce. But it’s worth rolling up your sleeves and taking the time to find a place here: a priceless paradise, filled with water views, wide streets and a tight-knit community, awaits you.
BEROWRA CREEK||
CABRAMATTA||
CONDELL PARK||
CHIPPING NORTON||
COLEDALE||
DAWES POINT||
CURL CURL||
DENHAM COURT||
PUTNEY||
QUEENSCLIFF||
DUFFYS FOREST||
CROMER||
CANTERBURY||
BIRCHGROVE||
LEUMEAH||
MCMAHONS POINT||
CHURCH POINT||
REGENTS PARK||
MADDENS PLAINS||
PHILLIP BAY||
THE ROCKS||
CLOVELLY||
ROYAL NATIONAL PARK||
BRONTE|A world-famous surf beach, ocean pools and family-friendly parklands –this is the Sydney everybody dreams about.|Bronte could be described as Bondi’s more mature older sister. It’s calmer and less glitzy, attracting long-term commitment rather short term stays.  The tight-knit community revolves around the stunning beach, which provides more of a family-friendly outlook thanks to the sprawling grassed park that rolls right up to the sand. Make no mistake: Bronte is one of Sydney’s most elite suburbs. But that doesn’t mean the community is any less tight-knit. Here you’ll find a harmonious mix of young professionals who take to the surf each morning and older, mature homeowners who have earned their sand-between-the-toes moment each morning. It’s beautiful all year round, but Bronte’s charms are on full display in the summertime. The dazzling beach draws the community together, whether it’s a family picnic in the park, a dip in the sea baths or a brisk walk along the cliff tops. Popular cafes and some of Sydney’s best restaurants line Bronte Road, creating a pleasant bustle to the otherwise sleepy streets. The charming public school is well attended locally.  Bronte was a sleepy, overlooked suburb until 1970s, when the area’s undeveloped charm won over the prospective house hunters. Today, the streets are buzzing. House blocks may be small, but the convivial mix of Californian Bungalows, Federation, historic Gothic-style abodes with brand new architecturally-designed residences make this one good looking suburb. Smaller scale Art Deco apartments are also available.  Offering up sun, sea and sand moments all year round, Bronte is at the top of most Sydneysiders’ wish lists. This glamorous suburb’s charm has been its lack of large-scale commercial development - instead, it’s a small but perfectly formed enclave that’s happy for the ocean to steal the show.
CONNELLS POINT||
ANNANDALE|Soft and gentle yet with a rock-and-roll past, Annandale is a village by the city and the sea.|Architectural and affluent, Annandale is a forever-home location for many lucky families. With one end boasting water views of Rozelle Bay, a cafe laden intersection at Johnston and Booth streets in the middle, and another border on the ever bustling Parramatta Road connecting residents to the city, Annandale offers something for everyone. Steeped in history, Annandale’s unusually wide streets are home to heritage-listed homes, churches and galleries. There’s a balance in the air in Annandale, keeping it fresh and vibrant. The wide, tree-lined streets are filled with all generations. It’s the kind of place where the shopkeepers greet you by name, because most locals, both young and old, singles and families, stay here long enough to form a tight-knit community. Rock and roll used to call Annandale home, the eponymous Annandale Hotel once graced Parramatta Road adding certified grunge glamour to the postcode. Now closed, there’s still a live music scene, just on a smaller scale. Even the musty and dusty Empire Hotel has cleaned up its act, offering a fancy menu, a stunning renovation and craft beers. In fact, these days, Annandale’s action is more tempered. Booth and Johnston Streets enjoy the fresh aroma of coffee and cakes and buzz happily with regular buses to and from the city. Serviced with two competitive public schools and a Catholic college, this postcode is popular with families too, who pop into famous Terrific Scientific toy store on weekends. Sydney’s inner city may be famous for rambling roads, narrow land lots and winding laneways, but in this postcode, there’s a sense of space and order. Set up in response to Sydney’s overcrowding problems in 1877, the Annandale of today still enjoys a wide boulevard-like main street, where most of the local cafes, supermarkets and shops cluster. There are many heritage-listed homes, but none more impressive than The Abby at the end of Johnston Street, complete with ballrooms and towers. Today, Annandale is abuzz with single-bedroom apartment complexes and townhouse units, catering for a younger, more mobile crowd. Annandale has been doing it right for decades, making it one of the most sort- after postcodes in Sydney. Living in Annandale doesn’t start and end with a home; it’s about buying into a location that’s close to the city centre but with an established local culture and lifestyle¬ – helped along with fine food and coffee. Whether it’s water views, a thriving high street, or good schools that you’re looking for, you may have found it in Annandale.
SYLVANIA WATERS||
STRATHFIELD|Just 14km from the CBD, with a major train station and several well-regarded schools, it’s no wonder Strathfield is popular.|While Strathfield’s finest historical mansions may now house some of the district’s best schools, there are still plenty of regal homes to find, amongst the new apartment towers. Strathfield is known as a multicultural community, with locals who hail from China, India, Korea and Sri Lanka. With relative proximity to the city and good transport options, many residents work in city offices. There are plenty of schools in the area for children and teenagers. Strathfield Plaza is the main shopping centre and it’s adequate for day-to-day requirements. There are also some shops on the streets around the train station. For major shopping expeditions people tend to go to Burwood, Bankstown or the city. There are some great Chinese and Korean eateries and even a Burmese restaurant here. Strathfield Station is the major train station. Strathfield has plenty of schools – including the private St Patrick’s College, Santa Sabina College, Meridan Anglican School for Girls, Trinity Grammar and St Martha’s. The area is also serviced by public schools including Strathfield Girls High, Strathfield South High School (which also services several other further-West suburbs), Strathfield Girls High School and Homebush Boys High School. Strathfield is in some ways contradictory – beautiful, yet urban; luxurious in some quarters, wanting in others. Multi-million dollar family homes stand streets away from the high-rise apartment towers crowded around the train station – where just about anything goes. Grand mansions were built in Strathfield in the 1900s – but many of those that remain have been carved into apartments or now house private schools. For excellent public transport, plenty of schools and a variety of home options, it’s hard to go past Strathfield. Set alongside major road arterials and with a large train station, it’s not a destination for visitors – but it is a happy home for residents, where life is comfortable, but never dull.
DOONSIDE||
MOUNT ANNAN||
BOSSLEY PARK||
EDENSOR PARK||
OATLANDS||
HOBARTVILLE||
KYEEMAGH||
BURWOOD HEIGHTS||
BELLEVUE HILL|Setting house sale records, blissful Bellevue Hill is all about living life on a grand scale.|Snugly set between Point Piper, Rose Bay and Double Bay, Bellevue Hill is very much part of the exclusive eastern Sydney enclave. With glimpses of the Harbour, city connectivity and only minutes from Sydney’s best beaches, Bellevue Hill’s residents enjoy all of the good things in life. Genteel streetscapes, humming cafes and stunning gardens and parks, this leafy and gorgeous suburb might be home to high rollers, but it’s also extremely low key. A small cluster of cafes and delis can be found but most shopping and imbibing is done with a little stroll to the nearby suburbs of Double Bay and Bondi Junction.  Cooper Park offers around 38 acres of pristine greenery, complete with walking tracks, off-leash areas and barbeque facilities. Bellevue Public School offers junior school aged children a pretty place to play and study, while Sydney’s exclusive The Scots College and Cranbrook School are also found within the suburb’s leafy borders. Immaculately landscaped gardens, rolling lawns and period style mansions are commonplace in this sophisticated part of town. The streets are wide and welcoming with circa 1920 California Bungalows, Georgian and Hamptons style homes sporting fancy extensions and renovations.  Yet despite the finery, Bellevue Hill is about stepping away from the public eye with many houses set back from the street behind high gates. Bellevue Hill may be moneyed and magnificent but there’s also a generous grace about the area, too. Set up over the Harbour, with winding tree lined streets, this is the suburb you come to escape the trappings of the fast lane – but not forget about them, entirely – thanks to the short trip to the city or Bondi Beach.
HARRIS PARK||
MACQUARIE FIELDS||
ST IVES CHASE||
GRAYS POINT||
GLENHAVEN||
RAMSGATE BEACH||
HAYMARKET||
BLACKETT||
BROOKLYN||
RICHMOND||
LANE COVE|Just nine kilometres from the CBD, Lane Cove is a sleepy village in some parts, and serious business in others.|Wandering down the pedestrian-only plaza in Lane Cove you’d be forgiven for thinking you were a long way from the Sydney CBD. It’s this charm, combined with beautiful natural surroundings, that keeps Lane Cove at the top of many peoples’ wish lists. Being close to the city, it’s unsurprising that many Lane Cove locals are professionals and office workers. They tend to drive their cars to work or take the bus. Trains aren’t as popular – the nearest stations are Artarmon and Chatswood. With the Lane Cove River not far away, Lane Cove Bushland Park slicing into the suburb and Lane Cove National Park moments away, this beautiful suburb is a unique location, especially considering its proximity to the city. The mammoth library is a fixture in the centre of town, and is complemented on one side by retail shops as part of Market Square, which lead off into the established village area. Several supermarkets are available, together with restaurants worth travelling for, including some seriously good Thai food. Lane Cove has its own aquatic centre, 50m and 25m swimming pools and more. Commuters are most likely to drive to work or catch a bus, as the nearest train stations are in neighbouring suburbs. The area is serviced by several public, private and religious schools. Lane Cove properties include luxury apartments, stunning mansions and large family homes – generally of high quality. Apartments are still being developed, and it is possible to buy off plans. Some older properties with huge half-acre blocks still exist. There are also several retirement villages with assisted living accommodation. Bush views are a possibility, together with river glimpses. Nicole Kidman, Brett Lee, Sam Newman and Barnaby Joyce are rumoured to have lived in Lane Cove, so there must be something in the glittering expanses of water. If you’re after a nature-enveloped perch under 10km from the CBD, you’d be hard-pressed to beat Lane Cove.
NELSON||
ABBOTSFORD||
REGENTVILLE||
GLADESVILLE||
SYDENHAM||
ROZELLE||
ERMINGTON||
ARNCLIFFE|This little suburb is full of surprises: great food, easy access to the city and a tight-knit multicultural community.|Bordered by the airport and Wolli Creek Valley at one end and Rockdale to the south, Arncliffe is a place where the great Australian dream of a home with a backyard still exists. The block sizes are often generous, and the area offers great inner-city connectivity thanks to a short fifteen-minute drive from Newtown. Plus, residents enjoy the added benefit of being just a hop, skip and jump from Brighton Beach. Arncliffe welcomes people from all walks of life. This area was settled by Irish, Chinese and German migrants in the late 19th century, but today, there’s also strong representation from the Italian, Yugoslavian, Lebanese and Greek cultures. There’s a rare balance in generations too, with mature-aged homeowners and young independents both calling the postcode home. A stroll from the station and you’re already in the heart of Arncliffe. Exotic eateries, delis and bakeries abound, and a short walk up Wollongong and Forest Roads is rewarded with some of the best Lebanese food in Sydney, all for a bargain price. Savvy local families know that with the suburb bordering the Cooks River, Bardwell Valley and Wolli Creek, there are plenty of hidden walking and bike trails to discover, while Arncliffe Park plays host to many local sporting teams. Arncliffe and Athelstane Public Schools offer families great academic options. Arncliffe’s streetscape is as wonderfully diverse as its community. Established in the late 19th Century, there are still many Victorian and Federation style homes, Californian Bungalows, cottages and buildings throughout the postcode. Sprawling modern-day mansions are also part of the suburb’s make-up, alongside townhouses and new apartment complexes, especially in the northern end and around the train station. Feeling the inner-city squeeze? You can breathe easier in Arncliffe. The area has started to attract Sydneysiders who still want to feel connected to the city, without compromising on block sizes. With bold new apartment complexes and town houses on the rise, the area is seeing an interesting mix of young professionals enter the postcode, too. With access to the beach, golf courses and schools, there’s something here for everyone.
CAMPERDOWN||
GLENFIELD||
BARANGAROO||
CAMMERAY||
ASHBURY||
CATHERINE FIELD||
CAMPBELLTOWN|Campbelltown is a 50 minute drive from the city, and is well-serviced by public transport.|If you enjoy living close enough to the city for work, but far enough away that it’s a distant memory on weekends, Campbelltown is for you. Campbelltown is home to a few retirement villages, so you’ll find it has its fair share of community members wielding walking frames and mobility scooters. The area is also popular with families, and has plenty of schools and sporting clubs. The main shopping centre in Campbelltown is the sprawling Macarthur Square (near Macarthur Railway Station) – with plenty of shops, and possibly not enough car spaces. Campbelltown Mall has a smaller collection of shops and supermarkets. Campbelltown Railway Station is on the Airport line and a train from Campbelltown to central on a weekday takes about 50 minutes. Campbelltown is still home to an industrial area. The University of Western Sydney has a Campbelltown Campus, and there are several other education facilities including Campbelltown High School of the Performing Arts, several other public schools and Anglican and Catholic schools. Campbelltown Arts Centre is home to a 180-seat theatre, and Fisher’s Ghost Festival is an annual street festival with its own art award. Although Campbelltown has a rich history dating back to the 1800s and there are some historical buildings, the bulk of homes are more modern. Original and renovated 60s houses sit alongside new developments of townhouses and villas. Large family homes with multiple bedrooms and numerous bathrooms are also available, together with some apartments. There are still some large blocks available, possibly with potential for subdivision. Whether you’re after somewhere to retire or a home for your family, Campbelltown has plenty of amenities and is an easy commute to the city. Come the weekend, you can easily escape to the surrounding rural areas. With plenty of shopping, cinemas and sports clubs for both children and adults, there’s something here for every family member.
ALLAMBIE HEIGHTS||
WETHERILL PARK||
OYSTER BAY||
FAIRFIELD WEST||
HORNSBY HEIGHTS||
MOORE PARK||
LURNEA||
EDGECLIFF||
ST PETERS||
CAMPSIE|If you’re after a home close enough to work in the city and be home within half an hour, Campsie is for you.|Campsie was popular with European immigrants many years ago and in recent times has attracted Asian immigrants. Anyone looking for a new beginning should find Campsie well worth a look. Traditionally home to people starting a new life, Campsie today is home to a relatively young crowd. It’s a multicultural suburb too, with locals hailing from across the globe, giving the area an international buzz. Campsie Centre, the main shopping centre, and supermarkets are located off Amy Street a couple of blocks from the train station. There are also several Asian supermarkets in Campsie and another strip of shops is located on Beamish Street. Campsie train station is on the Bankstown line, a busy line with regular trains to the city. On a good day a train ride to the city should take about 20 minutes. Compared with other suburbs, Campsie doesn't have many schools. Campsie Public School caters for children from kindergarten to year six, as does Catholic Primary school, St Mel’s, and there are other schools in neighbouring suburbs. Campsie is home to some excellent casual restaurants including Korean, Japanese, Asian fusion, Chinese, Vietnamese and other cuisines. The majority of homes in Campsie are apartments in smaller blocks. Old and new stand-alone houses are generally brick, or brick veneer and there are some original homes for renovators, together with beautifully restored family homes. Whether you’re starting out, or looking for a home with nothing to improve, Campsie has a gem for you. For proximity to the city, a range of housing and some excellent local take-aways, Campsie is worth a look. Campsie residents tend to be younger (about 35) and although it may have fewer family-focussed amenities than some other suburbs, it may be a good option for families where one or both parents work in the city.
SCHOFIELDS||
MAROOTA||
COMO||
BEAUMONT HILLS||
PROSPECT||
COLYTON||
HORNSBY|History buffs love Hornsby, while easy access to the CBD makes it a favourite with buyers|Hornsby is a bustling community 25 kilometres north-west of the CBD. Good schools and plenty of links to the city and beyond make Hornsby in high demand. Hornsby appeals to families and professionals who want a home with good access to the CBD. Hornsby is also popular with friends sharing homes, who appreciate the amenities and vibrant dining scene. Westfield Hornsby, packed full of shops, restaurants and cinemas, is where locals shop and catch up for coffee. The industrial and commercial precinct is located on the Pacific Highway. Foodies shop at Hornsby Organic Markets, held each Thursday at Hornsby Mall. Hornsby Station offers frequent train services to the CBD and Shorelink Buses travel to the North Shore, Macquarie University and up to Brooklyn. Swimmers are awaiting the completion of the new aquatic centre, while outdoorsy types head to sprawling Hornsby Park to power walk along Benowie Walking Track. Florence Street is Hornsby’s ‘eats street’, where there’s a good mix of Asian, Italian and Modern Australian restaurants and cafes. Hornsby’s pubs are good for a casual drink, while the upmarket small bars cater for fancier affairs. Schools include Hornsby North Public School, Hornsby South Public School and selective Hornsby Girls’ High School. The Hornsby Campus of TAFE specialises in graphic design and IT. Hornsby’s heritage homes have been lovingly preserved and many houses play up their vintage features. Architect-designed homes with pools, large garages and beautiful landscaping are increasingly common. New apartment developments make the most of natural light and offer balconies for entertainment as the norm. Houses with leafy outlooks are sought-after by buyers. Hornsby appeals to singles, families and retirees who appreciate the leafy outlook, open spaces and heritage-listed buildings. Professionals travelling to the North Shore or CBD for work have plenty of public transport options. Families love Hornsby for its good schools and parks, variety of dining options and amenities including easy shopping.
MENANGLE PARK||
WESTLEIGH||
BERRILEE||
BELLA VISTA||
BANKSMEADOW||
BANKSTOWN|With community members from all over the world, many small businesses and a rich history, there’s never a dull moment in Bankstown.|Wandering around modern Bankstown’s busy streets, lined with shops and businesses, you wouldn’t know it was a major hub of activity during World War II. One constant remains: a driven, determined community, constantly improving itself. Bankstown is known as one of Australia’s most multicultural suburbs, with locals hailing from across the globe, including Vietnam, Lebanon and China. While many people commute to the CBD for work, Bankstown is also home to many small businesses and a thriving retail precinct where some locals work. The major shopping centre is not far from Bankstown Train Station. Formerly ‘Bankstown Square’ it’s now called Centro Bankstown and is a steadily-spreading large shopping centre. Alongside the shopping centre is a cinema, and closer to the station you’ll find plenty of shops on the streets. The plush Bankstown Sports Club is popular for meals out and entertainment. There are many schools in Bankstown with a wide variety of girls, boys and co-educational schools, public schools, religious schools and private schools. Bankstown is also home to a TAFE and the University of Western Sydney, Bankstown Campus. When it comes to eating out, mainstream fast food chains thrive in Bankstown, together with some excellent kebab joints and clubs with gambling and entertainment. Apartment living is popular in Bankstown, and recent developments offer all the requirements for a busy family within a minimal footprint. Older homes are predominantly brick, often with concrete details, and older blocks tend to be generous in size, although many have been subdivided over the years into blocks of duplex homes. A 30 minute drive from the city and well-serviced by public transport, Bankstown is popular with families establishing a life in Australia. It’s a hive of activity with plenty of small businesses, many schools and well-established clubs. Bankstown is a buzzing, busy suburb that is constantly evolving.
SANDRINGHAM||
NORTH WAHROONGA||
LOFTUS||
NORTH TURRAMURRA||
PITT TOWN||
CLONTARF||
STANWELL PARK||
ORAN PARK||
NORTHWOOD||
STANHOPE GARDENS||
BURRANEER||
FIVE DOCK||
ELIZABETH HILLS||
LEPPINGTON||
BIDWILL||
VILLAWOOD||
CURRANS HILL||
DARLING POINT||
MONTEREY||
CREMORNE POINT||
KEARNS||
LOWER PORTLAND||
WINSTON HILLS||
AIRDS||
KIRRAWEE||
GREENACRE||
WINDSOR||
KINGS LANGLEY||
PETERSHAM||
LEICHHARDT|You’re probably familiar with Leichhardt’s Italian love affair, but dig a little deeper and you’ll discover some hidden secrets.|If you have an affinity for Italy, you’ll love Leichhardt. Perfect pasta, great coffee and nonna-approved cakes are almost too accessible in this Sydney suburb. But, as the locals know, there’s more than just good eating; pretty walking trails, a premier aquatic centre and a recently renovated cinema makes Leichhardt a buzzing little community. Order a coffee at one of the many cafes along Norton Street and you’ll find yourself in the company of families, older generations and busy young professionals. Leichhardt’s lifestyle is just too good to give up, which is why this in-demand suburb has a loyal group of locals, many of whom grew up here. An afternoon in Leichhardt is all about the leisurely stroll down Norton Street. The colourful cafes, gourmet grocers and family-run restaurants all provide ample fodder for people-watching. Bar Italia is a stalwart of the suburb, but newcomer Penny Fours is certainly upping the sugar-hit ante with beautiful cakes and pastries. Local dog owners are up early and treating pooches to the famous Pupa-chinos at Sydney’s only dog cafe, Café Bones. The well-read pop past Berkalow Books for the latest new release paperback, and a tipple in the upstairs bar. In the evening, locals flock to the Palace Cinema – and with its stunning referb, you could be forgiven for missing your film for a glass of wine on the balcony. For young families, there are three public schools to choose from and the postcode has plenty of bus routes to the city and surrounds. All types of architectural styles and dwellings sit side by side on the streets of this suburb. As with its inner-west neighbours, Leichhardt’s nswtorian single-fronted terraces were the first style of homes to grace the streets. More recently, however, multi-dwelling apartment complexes continue to scale higher and higher. The most well known being The Italian Forum with its own piazza-style square, cafes and clothing stores. Stroll down to the northern end and you’ll be rewarded with Sydney’s sparkling harbour and the famous Bay Run. Leichhardt is a hot contender for the perfect postcode award. Between the sparkling harbour at one end and Parramatta Road on the other, there are more than enough cafes, restaurants and stores to keep the lucky locals amused all year round. But it’s the rich Italian heritage that really puts Leichhardt on the map; with the annual Norton Street Italian Festa being a true celebration of the postcode’s European pride.
ASHCROFT||
MERRYLANDS|The multicultural community in Merrylands enjoys plenty of amenities, some fantastic take-away food and beautiful parks.|Just 25km from the CBD, Merrylands is overflowing with decent-sized family homes, complete with space for the trampoline, hills hoist and the dog. Merrylands is the very definition of a diverse, Australian community. Over half of its locals were born overseas (from countries including Lebanon, China, India and Afghanistan), giving the area a friendly community buzz. Stocklands Merrylands is the main shopping centre and has plenty of supplies for day-to-day grocery requirements and more exciting shops (fashion, beauty, electronics, sport and more). Most locals drive to work but some take the train from Merrylands station. A few take the bus, but there are plenty of cycling paths in Merrylands available, too. The most impressive park in Merrylands is Central Gardens, 12 hectares filled with open spaces, play equipment, two function areas, animal enclosures, a lake and waterfalls. Take a walk and visit the kangaroos and emus. Merrylands Swimming Pool has more options to exhaust young folk with outdoor pools, BBQ facilities and adjoining sports fields and tennis courts. Although most of the homes in Merrylands are stand-alone houses, a sprinkling of townhouses are available together with a growing number of apartments. You’ll find plenty of charming older homes with front gardens and spacious yards, complete with garages for those who like to tinker. A home with a yard, plenty of amenities and a local park complete with kangaroos and emu – what more could you ask for? Merrylands is home to families from all over the world and easily accessible from the CBD. Certainly worth considering if you’re looking for somewhere to settle in with your family.
GLENWOOD||
OXFORD FALLS||
BADGERYS CREEK||
HILLSDALE||
NEUTRAL BAY|Perched on the water and a quick trip over the Harbour Bridge from the city, Neutral Bay is the perfect home for busy professionals.|Originally selected as a port for visiting international vessels (thus “neutral” bay), and once a bohemian village, Neutral Bay today is home to young professionals and well-to-do families. Neutral Bay was once home to May Gibbs, but now you’re more likely to find the locals are typing reports rather than children’s stories. It’s popular with young professionals, families and some retirees who have lived in the area for most of their lives. Neutral Bay shopping, eating and drinking is crowded around Military Road, where you’ll find The Oaks Hotel, which incorporates a courtyard, bars and restaurants. More restaurants line either side of the road, from cheap takeaway (Noodle Star is a stand out) to more refined restaurants. Big Bear is a small shopping centre on Military Road near the major bus station, incorporating Coles, fruit and vegetable shops, a bakery and other stores, together with medical offices. There are plenty of bars of varying quality and wine and cocktails are popular of a weekend. There are several schools which service the area, including the well-regarded Neutral Bay Public School. Once you get away from the pumping Military Road, Neutral Bay has plenty of spots to relax a moment. Take a walk down the meandering, steep roads towards the water and you’ll find beautiful parks where you can watch the boats bob or perhaps the locals playing ball games. There are several heritage-listed homes in Neutral Bay, together with art deco apartment buildings, grand mansions, and contemporary architect-designed masterpieces. Beautiful Neutral Bay is the champagne of suburbs. Make this place your home and you can leave work late and still be home for dinner with the family, or a cocktail with friends. If Neutral Bay has a flaw, it’s Military Road, a bottleneck of an arterial which is a bugbear for locals.
WAREEMBA||
DOUBLE BAY|If you think you know Double Bay, think again. This harbour-side ‘burb is just starting to get really interesting.|The twinkling harbour, high-end fashion boutiques and flash restaurants: it’s all part of the scenery in Sydney’s shining Double Bay. This is a place where the good times roll, and they keep rolling with a recent revitalisation bringing new bars, eateries and a fancy new hotel to the area. Living beautifully might be the motto of the residents around Double Bay. The Art Deco apartment blocks attract young professionals to the area, but it’s also the forever home for many older families and mature empty nesters who enjoy the genteel feel of the neighbourhood. It’s certainly high glamour, just without the attitude, in this tree-lined neck of the woods. New South Head Road really gets interesting in Double Bay, sporting pubs, elegant florists and cafes, and if you duck down Knox Street, Cross Street and Bay Street you’ll find bijou bars, restaurants and fashion boutiques.  The gem in this postcode’s crown, however, is the Murray Rose Harbour Pool, with its South-of-France mood, but with better coffee. The well-attended local public school adds water views to its report card. Double Bay is beautiful without being flashy. The well-lit winding streets connect New South Head Road to the harbour foreshore, and in between are a peppering of period style terraces, Victorian era homes and town houses. Predominately, elegant Art Deco and mid-century unit blocks and apartments are where the well-heeled locals make their home.  Double Bay certainly boasts double the charm, but it’s not just about the ladies who lunch – there’s an energetic new wave of young professionals moving to the area, taking advantage of the city connectivity, via bus or ferry, during the working week, and the Harbour pools and parks on the weekend. 
MOUNT DRUITT||
WEST HOXTON||
JANNALI||
ARNDELL PARK||
GREAT MACKEREL BEACH||
WAVERTON||
KIRRIBILLI|Kirribilli sits front and centre along Sydney’s glittering harbour, offering all sorts of urban delights for lucky residents.|Established in 1790s, Kirribilli may be one of Sydney’s oldest suburbs but it’s certainly not showing any signs of slowing down. Glamorous Harbour Bridge views, the lush and leafy streets and thriving shopping precinct, are all part of the package in this postcode. One glance at all the mid-century, Art Deco and modern apartment complexes that sit shoulder to shoulder along Kirribilli’s winding streets, and it’s no surprise to learn most of the locals here are young city workers and more mature wheelers and dealers.  There’s no more charming way to arrive at Kirribilli than by ferry. At Jefferys Street Wharf you have the added thrill of having the Harbour Bridge looming over your left shoulder, while at Kirribilli Warf you get to sail past the Prime Minister’s house. Next to Milsons Point train station, which also services the area, you’ll find a village-like gathering of shops, cafes and restaurants, especially around Fitzroy and Broughton Streets. On the weekends, the famous Kirribilli markets offers bargain buys with million-dollar views and, in the evening, it’s just a stroll down to The Ensemble theatre for award-winning performances in the historic boatshed. The prestigious St Aloysius' College and Loreto Kirribilli schools attract families to the area. In a prime position such as this, it’s hard to pull your eyes away from the Opera House and the Harbour Bridge but this pretty neighbourhood has plenty of vantage points. Multi-storey flats began to dominate the area as early as 1915, replacing the old warehouses and mansions built in the 1800s. Today, more than 80 percent of the postcode is apartments and multi-storey dwellings, mainly in Art Deco, mid-century and modern style. A few highly-valued Victorian terraces remain, with a price tag to match their vintage. Property in Kirribilli is tightly held and it’s not hard to see why, especially when it offers a casual stroll over the Harbour Bridge to the city as one of the perks. The surprising thing is the diversity of homes available in the area – from flats, townhouses, terraces and mansions, they all sit side by side, vying for the best views that Sydney has to offer.
WOODCROFT||
CASTLE COVE||
BANGOR||
KANGAROO POINT||
DANGAR ISLAND||
YENNORA||
WENTWORTH POINT||
CROYDON||
THE PONDS||
WHALAN||
FRESHWATER||
CROYDON PARK|Small enough to cultivate a tight-knit community, but only minutes from the city, this neighbourhood is ripe for the picking.|Boarded by the Cooks River to the south, and Croydon and Ashfield in the northeast, this little neighbourhood has all the charm of the western suburbs, without the overcrowding. Now poised on the brink of really great things thanks to the regeneration of the inner west, Croydon Park is attracting all sorts of attention. With an almost even spread of families with school-aged children, retirees, empty-nesters and independent first home buyers and renters, Croydon Park residents all add to the vibrancy of the area. With the rise and rise of the inner west the local community is set to expand and develop. Hop off the bus along Georges River Road between Croydon Ave and Burwood Road and you’ll find a bustling high-street that reflects the lives and loves of this vibrant community. Polish bakeries, Thai food and Italian pizzerias are all part of this culturally diverse neighbourhood. Further south, and Croydon Park’s parklands are yours for the picnicking. On weekend mornings cyclists make good use of the bike path that extends up to Homebush and down to Botany Bay. Croydon Park Public School and St Francis Xaviers Catholic School are both strong academic options for primary school children. Parklands, community gardens and wide footpaths, in Croydon Park it’s not uncommon to see neighbours leaning across fences to chat or for shop owners to know customers by name. The tree-lined streets boast Federation terraces, mid century family homes and a peppering of Art Deco apartment blocks and a few multi-storey high rises. The surprisingly energetic shopping strip is home to all manner of speciality stores and neighbourhood staples, like delis, chemists and cafes. Family friendly but with enough going on for young singles too, Croydon Park has plenty on offer for all. Whether it’s the quaint village-like meeting spots, the happy blend of different cultures or the peaceful vibe on the streets, this up-and-coming neck of the woods is worth a visit.
LAVENDER BAY||
SYDNEY|If you work in the CBD, living in Sydney is about as convenient as it gets.|Bordered by harbour, beautiful parks and dotted with restaurants, galleries and more, Sydney is a great place to live. People who live in Sydney are predominantly professionals and office workers who walk to work. The city is a cultural hot-pot – everyone here is from somewhere else – adding to the city’s vital, cosmopolitan vibe. The Sydney Harbour, Opera House, Harbour Bridge, Botanic Gardens, galleries, festivals and more – Sydney really is a gorgeous city. That said, it can be a sleepy city too. Some parts of the city are all but deserted of a weekend. Martin Place on a Sunday lunchtime is something entirely different to a Wednesday lunchtime, and many of the cafes and restaurants aren’t open weekends. Circular Quay restaurants and cafes are open all hours, but you’ll have to wade through the tourists to get to them. If you love nightlife, there are plenty of bars, pubs and clubs in Sydney and neighbouring suburbs. There are also several galleries and live music venues. Whether you’re after a penthouse, simple apartment or studio, there’s something for you in Sydney – but chances are, you’ll be taking a lift to get there. Apartments tend to be within glittering sky-scrapers, or within hotels. Living in Sydney city isn’t as common as in some other cities, so people often look for homes in surrounding suburbs rather than in the city itself. As a city, Sydney’s a thing of beauty – but as a place to live, it’s just hitting its strides. If you’re keen to be close to work, or love nightlife, this is the place for you. If you want to drive anywhere in a hurry or hunger for a village atmosphere – perhaps try a neighbouring suburb.
WOLLSTONECRAFT||
ROSEHILL||
MAYS HILL||
HECKENBERG||
ALFORDS POINT||
EAST LINDFIELD||
MONA VALE||
MIDDLE DURAL||
NORTH ST MARYS||
CAMBRIDGE GARDENS||
EPPING|Epping is absolutely brimming with conveniences in an enviable, easy-to-access location.|Churches, health care specialists, gyms, banks, schools and plenty of shopping options, all connected with a well-serviced public transport network: Epping has it all. With a major university nearby, a variety of different housing styles available and easy access to the city, Epping is home to people of all ages and at different stages of their careers. Here, you’ll find students as well as established families (with and without children). Spilling out from Epping train station in the heart of the suburb is every variety of modern convenience you’re ever likely to need or want: a Coles supermarket, of course, as well as petrol stations, newsagents, pharmacies and the like, alongside speciality grocers, restaurants and cafes. All this – as well as acupuncturists, dentists, real estate agents and even a nightclub. Epping is also home to a number of places of worship – there are 15 in this one postcode. Six schools are also located within the boundaries of Epping – both public and private. There are several more located just across the border in surrounding suburbs, such as Epping Boys High School (in Marsfield) and Cheltenham Girls High School (in Cheltenham). In Epping you’ll find a pleasing variety of homes. Here, locals live in everything from modern studios and small older-style boutique flats to big, freestanding houses with pools, and penthouse apartments. Many older homes have been renovated however those still in need of a refresh are often available. Brand new developments are more likely to be apartments than houses. Location, convenience and lifestyle – Epping boasts the trifecta. Locals want for nothing, enjoying ideal access to schools, specialists, shopping and public transport as well as other lifestyle options such as recreation centres, churches and parks. If it’s the best of both the suburbs and inner-city living that you’re after, Epping must be on your list to consider.
NORTH MANLY||
HOXTON PARK||
NARRAWEENA||
DULWICH HILL|Don’t be fooled by the laid-back village vibe, this little suburb has a vibrant heart.|Formerly known as Petersham Hill, Wardell's Bush, South Petersham and Fern Hill, Dulwich Hill by any other name is just as sweet. Established in 1794 as a market garden and orchard area, growth in this suburb today is fuelled by a brand-new light-rail line, a railway station and close proximity to the city centre and airport. Walking distance to premier inner-west suburbs of Summer Hill and happening Marrickville, Dulwich Hill is all about prime positioning. But it’s the sense of community and a rich mix of cultures that make this little spot really special. First-wave Greek immigrants settled here decades ago; soon followed by Italian, Portuguese and Vietnamese families, all bringing with them great food and a sense of community. In recent years, younger singles have been attracted to Dulwich Hill’s excellent connectivity to the city and new apartment developments. But it’s still a place where playgrounds and kid-friendly cafes are filled with young families who call the postcode home. Dulwich Hill suits the Sunday crowd. Grab a coffee (and a baby-chino for the little ones) at the locally loved Sideways Café, kick back in Arlington Park in the sunshine or head to Hub House Diner for a cheeky hamburger at lunch. The pace is always slower and always convivial. Friends for dinner? Jump on the new light rail for an easy ride to the Sydney Fish Market, Chinatown and Paddy’s Markets. Or simply take a stroll down the footpaths of Marrickville, New Canterbury or Wardall roads and pick up some tips from some of Sydney’s best provedores, like Luigi's Bakery, Eumundi Smokehouse and The Larder Epicerie Fine. Boasting more than its fair share of wide, leafy streets, Dulwich Hill is dotted with picture-book style Art Deco and Federation family homes, complete with picket fences and rose gardens. Meandering laneways, dotted with green-grassed parks and sports fields, lead to the surprisingly energetic shopping strips of Wardall Road and Marrickville Road. Once Sydney’s best-kept secret, Dulwich Hill’s fine food, laid-back vibe and leafy streets have become a house hunter’s haven. It’s a postcode on the verge of really great things, thanks to a sparkling new transportation link and its close-enough-to-walk-to proximity to all the inner-west has to offer. The real key to its success, however, is the old-fashioned sense of neighbourliness that’s easily found this multi-cultured suburb.
CENTENNIAL PARK||
COBBITTY||
PORT HACKING||
OAKVILLE||
PADSTOW HEIGHTS||
MELROSE PARK||
VINEYARD||
CRONULLA|For an idyllic seaside lifestyle complete with views, food and drink and a train to the city, Cronulla is a tough act to beat.|Beaches, surf, sun, plenty of restaurants and cafes, and with public transport to the city, The Sutherland Shire (which incorporates Cronulla and other suburbs) is labelled ‘God’s Country’ by locals. It’s one of few beach suburbs in New South Wales which is easily accessible by train from the CBD, and many residents commute to work. The majority of Cronulla locals work in offices during the day, which is probably why they enjoy coming home to life by the beach. The Cronulla lifestyle is as you’d expect from a beach-side paradise. Locals love swimming, surfing and fun in the sun, their beloved Cronulla Sharks (a rugby league team, for the uninitiated) and a few beers at the end of the day. Streets are lined with cafes, restaurants, pubs and clubs, including the legendary Carmen’s and Northies, which was first opened in 1888. Cronulla has been the setting of many popular books and television shows – including Puberty Blues and The Shire. Sylvania Waters was filmed nearby. Whilst these exaggerate many facets of Cronulla’s culture – it’s broadly accepted that they contain at least a seed of truth. Cronulla is serviced by more than nine public, religious and private schools. The train from Cronulla station reaches the city in an hour. There is also a ferry, which travels from Cronulla to serene Bundeena and the Royal National Park. A good drive to the city will get you there in 30-40 minutes. Due to Cronulla’s popularity, high-density housing is popular in the area – apartments stacked up into the sky compete for glimpses of water. Those looking for their first home will still find plenty of red-brick apartment buildings with (relatively more) affordable apartments. For those with no budget constraints, there are some truly striking entertainers to show off. If you’re after a beach-side paradise with public transport to the city and a thriving pub culture, Cronulla is for you. Take a swim or a surf before you slip into your suit and head to the city, and return home for a dip and a well-deserved beverage.
BALMAIN|Minutes from the city, on the water, with great shopping, excellent restaurants and unique homes, Balmain offers an enviable lifestyle.|Want to be in the city in a jiffy? Take a bus or ferry from Balmain. And, at the end of the day? Come home to this established village with excellent restaurants, cafes and pubs and some spectacular real estate. The one flaw? Well, if you don’t like hills perhaps Balmain isn’t for you. Due to its proximity to the city, Balmain is the perfect place for professionals. During the day prams are pushed to lunchtime rendezvous, while come nightfall it’s time for a beer at one of many watering holes. Those whose children have long since grown up and left home take the opportunity to relax with their four-legged fur-babies at one of many cafes and restaurants. Darling Street is not only the main road into and out of Balmain, but it is also a popular destination for folk who brunch on the weekend. At one end you’ll find the ferry wharf. Meander up the hill and you’ll hit popular pubs, restaurants and fashion and gift shops, together with more practical supermarkets and bakeries. Live music is alive and well in Balmain and you can choose from several pub gigs. The nearby Rozelle markets (held every weekend in the grounds of Rozelle School) are popular for second-hand goods, especially clothes, and there are also plants, flowers and live music on offer. Wandering the streets of Balmain won’t just give you a stair-master-equivalent workout; you’ll also see some fantastic architecture. Lovingly refurbished Californian bungalows perch alongside semi-detached terraces and towering multi-storey contemporary homes. Due to Balmain’s hills you’ll find many homes are set up above or down below the road and are two or three storeys high – single level houses aren’t as easy to find. For village lifestyle, quality eating and drinking and a small but well-curated collection of shops, it’s hard to beat Balmain. Add to that beautiful heritage buildings alongside architect-designed multi-level terraces and some truly over-the-top entertainers with water views, and you’ve got something pretty special. Catch a bus or ferry to work, and you’re set.
MOUNT COLAH||
LINLEY POINT||
DHARRUK||
DENISTONE WEST||
WINDSOR DOWNS||
POTTS HILL||
RANDWICK|A largely residential suburb adjoining the famous racecourse and Centennial Park, Randwick offers city living with access to wide open spaces.|Just 15 minutes drive to the city and five minutes drive to the beach, Randwick is a fantastic spot close enough to the action, but not in the thick of it. As you would imagine, Randwick is home to many young professionals who travel to work in the city. It’s also got its fair share of more mature folk, who have spent all of their lives in the area and intend to grow old gracefully at home. Close proximity to the Prince of Wales Hospital Private Hospital, Children’s Hospital and Royal Hospital for Women provides both amenities to locals, and employment (over 6% of locals work in hospitals). Randwick’s main shopping strip is along Belmore Road, where you’ll find major supermarkets and two shopping centres together with an Asian supermarket. The Entertainment Quarter village markets, a producer’s market, are held in nearby Moore Park on Wednesdays and Saturdays. In addition to several hospitals, local amenities include the famous Randwick Racecourse, and beautiful Centennial Park. For entertainment, locals head to The Spot, where you’ll find a cinema, cafes and restaurants. There isn’t a train station in Randwick, but several buses service the area. Locals are most likely to drive to work, but a good proportion take the bus. There are plenty of schools servicing Randwick, including religious and public primary and secondary schools (both boys, girls and co-educational) and the Open High School (a school delivering distance education). The University of New South Wales and Sydney Institute of TAFE also have campuses nearby. Whilst there are still some separate and semi-detached houses in Randwick, the bulk of homes are apartments. Federation homes sit aside modern townhouses and up the road you’ll find a high rise apartment block or two. It seems architects in Randwick believe that, ‘the only way is up,’ when it comes to creating living space; so don’t be surprised if your town house is three storeys high. For a more laid-back city living experience, just a skip away from the Sydney CBD and beautiful beaches, it’s hard to go past Randwick. In addition to a concentration of hospitals, the area is well-serviced by amenities including shopping centres and schools. Whether you’re after a cozy apartment or multi-story townhouse, there’s something here for you.
ROOTY HILL||
CLYDE||
HURLSTONE PARK||
PARRAMATTA|Parramatta is well-known as a business district, as well as home to passionate locals.|In Parramatta city you’ll find plenty of business towers full of serious-looking ladies and gentlemen. But when work is over, there’s plenty more to do. Paramatta, with an average age of 30, is a relatively young city. It’s also very multicultural, with more than half of locals being born overseas. Parramatta residents are passionate about their sport, both playing it and barracking for local teams. Parramatta is home to the huge Westfield Parramatta which includes Event Cinemas. A farmers’ market is held each Friday in nearby Church Street Mall, and you’ll also find plenty of cafes and restaurants on the mall. Parramatta has a major train station, and is also serviced by several buses, both to the city and to other suburbs. Parramatta locals are passionate about their Parramatta Eels rugby team. The name ‘Parramatta’ (Burramatta in the language of the native Darug people) itself means ‘eel waters’ and refers to the eels which flock to the intersection of the Parramatta River and Port Jackson. Parramatta was settled at the same time as Sydney, so it has a rich history. Nowadays in terms of buildings, there’s a serious overrepresentation of apartment buildings reaching into the sky. You’ll find everything from one-bedroom basic accommodation to larger apartments which can easily accommodate a family. There are some original homes and larger blocks to be found – but you’ll have to fight the developers for them. If you want everything at your fingertips, Parramatta is the place to be. With major businesses, shopping, arts, alfresco dining, markets and an automobile precinct, you’re unlikely to have to leave Parramatta at all.
BERKSHIRE PARK||
LILLI PILLI||
SUMMER HILL||
LINDFIELD||
SEVEN HILLS|Sleepy Seven Hills is a great place to grow your family home.|Ensconced in the City of Blacktown, Seven Hills is a sleepy suburb with plenty of family homes on generous blocks. After a week of workplace grind, there’s nothing a Seven Hills family likes to do more than spend the weekend ferrying the kids from sporting events to birthday parties and then home for a BBQ. Like neighbouring Blacktown, Seven Hills is a multicultural community. Seven Hills isn’t a shopping destination, but you’ll find the essentials at Centro Seven Hills shopping centre. Westpoint in Blacktown is about 5 minutes away and Castle Towers is about 15 minutes (by car). The massive Parklea Markets is ten minutes away. Many schools and child care centres service the area including Bob Sinclair Child Care Centre, five public primary schools and The Hills Sports High School and Seven Hills High School. William Rose School is a school for children with disabilities from kindergarten through to year 12. Seven Hills Railway Station is on the Penrith line and there is a private bus service which goes to neighbouring suburbs. Predominantly single-storey weatherboard and brick veneer homes are set on large blocks. Older homes generally have only one bathroom, but if your clan needs more, there are plenty of newer homes which will accommodate. Part of Seven Hills was originally set up for soldiers returning from the First World War to try their hand at poultry farming. It’s not unusual now to pop your head over a neighbour’s fence and find a family of hens scratching around (if you’re lucky, they won’t have a rooster). For family lifestyle, large yards and established schools, Seven Hills is a contender. Add neat, meandering streets, beautiful trees, plenty for the kids to do and amenities just a short drive away, and you’ll find Seven Hills is one of the loveliest places in the City of Blacktown.
NORTHMEAD||
NORTH CURL CURL||
ROSEBERY||
CHIPPENDALE||
GALSTON||
YOWIE BAY||
ROSEVILLE CHASE||
BRADBURY||
AMBARVALE||
ALLAWAH||
RIVERSTONE||
KIRKHAM||
WESTMEAD|A whopping third of Westmead is made up of hospitals and education facilities. Work in these industries? In Westmead, you’re set. |Cut in half by a well-serviced train line (just a 30 minute trip into the city), Westmead is dominated by its health and education buildings and topped with day-to-day conveniences. Due to the nearby hospitals, university campus and high school, many people who live in Westmead work in the health and education industries. Here, you’ll find many young professionals as well as established and maturing families – with and without children. Make no mistake – Westmead is primarily about the hospitals, but its facilities certainly don’t end there. The suburb is also home to a number of education campuses – the University of Western Sydney as well as a number of primary and secondary schools of both the public and private variety. Surrounding these are casual eateries, health specialists and several churches. Technically speaking, the nearest supermarket (a Coles) is actually in the neighbouring suburb of Wentworthville – but it’s right on the border so locals could reasonably claim it as their own. Shopping centres, entertainment options and more formal restaurants can all be found just a few minutes away in Parramatta. In Westmead, homes come in all shapes, sizes and ages. For the most part, homes here are about convenience, both in terms of maintenance and proximity to the hospitals and university. Parramatta Marist High School (located in Westmead) is the oldest Catholic school in Australia and was established in 1820. Homes in the area start in that era and run through to new developments. If it’s major public infrastructure you’re after, Westmead has you covered with a number of hospitals and education campuses easily accessed by the M4 Motorway, Great Western Highway or the train (Westmead Station is 30 minutes from Sydney Central). Paired with a variety of health and education services and day-to-day amenities, this postcode is all about convenience.
ROUSE HILL||
EDMONDSON PARK||
YAGOONA||
LALOR PARK||
WOOLLAHRA|Flashes of the harbour, high-end fashion boutiques and an elegant main street all make Woollahra a post-card pretty postcode.|Woollahra’s name comes from the Aboriginal word for ‘meeting ground’ and ‘sitting down place’ and it couldn’t be more apt. At its heart, Woollahra has more than its fair share of cool cafes, old-fashioned pubs and award-winning restaurants, which lucky residents fill every day of the week. It’s also a place where ancient gum trees arch across the streets and where three-storey Victorian mansions sit side-by-side in good humoured harmony. At the higher end of the cost spectrum, a home in Woollahra attracts people who want to put down roots. It doesn’t share the transient, younger population of some of the neighbouring suburbs, instead the mood on the street is refined, polite and well-mannered. A slow saunter down Queen Street can easily fill up a day. There are patisseries, bars, antique stores, restaurants, florists and many boutique clothing stores vying for attention from well-heeled shoppers. Feeling sporty? Pop across the road at the top of Oxford Street for the lush fields of Centennial Park. Sunday afternoon pub sessions are a real delight, with plenty of old-fashioned English-style pubs serving up roasts and ales. Woollahra Public School offers primary school aged children a historic building to learn and play in. Woollahra’s streets are famous for their heritage-listed mansions; it’s not unusual to find yourself wandering down tree-lined boulevards filled with three-storey Victorian style terraces from end to end. But it’s not all ultra-grand – you’ll also find smaller unit blocks, apartment conversions and ornate Art Deco complexes for young professionals who are attracted to the proximity to the city and the easy lifestyle on offer. The residents of Woollahra are treated to the finer things in life. But it also exudes a casually elegant and friendly mood, thanks to a population that appreciate their beautiful surrounds and who have, more often than not, lived in the area for decades. Just 4kms from the city, with plenty of connectivity along Oxford Street, it’s not hard to see why you would never want to leave.
MINTO||
KINGSGROVE|You can find the full lifestyle package in this little neck of the woods.|Convenience is the order of the day in Kingsgrove, which is only 12km from Sydney CBD. Families are attracted to the schooling options, both private and state, plus excellent public transport connectivity. With larger blocks and competitive prices, the homes in this south Sydney neighbourhood are by and large populated by families with children in high school and beyond. Kingsgrove Road is the heart of the suburb where you’ll discover the day-to-day delights and amenities that the locals enjoy. Cross into Marshman Avenue for supermarkets and charming new cafes serving local produce and perfect coffees. Further south is the large and well-used Kingsgrove Park, alive with football during the weekends.  Families ferry kids up and down Kingsgrove Road to Kingsgrove Public School, Kingsgrove High School and Kingsgrove North High School during the week.  Single-storey, redbrick, mid-century: the classic Australian suburban home can still be found in this little part of Sydney. The pram-friendly footpaths and wide streets mean this is a place where you can park your car out the front. The classic high street mood extends from the train station area, with a sprinkling of playgrounds and parks for added green spaces. Minutes from inner-west hotspots of Newtown and Marrickville, but with the benefits of Hurstville to the south for bigger shopping excursions, Kingsgrove has got location all sewn up. Add to the mix an excellent selection of schools and city connectivity thanks to a swift and regular train service, you can see why this little spot gets a lot of attention.
FAIRFIELD EAST||
FAIRFIELD||
BURWOOD|Burwood is a great mix of practical amenities, cafes and restaurants, and historical and contemporary homes.|West of the CBD (about a 20-minute drive), Burwood boasts great shopping and eating together with plenty of schools, excellent transport and some gorgeous Federation homes. Peek inside one of Burwood’s simple but excellent cafes and you’ll spot city workers on their day off and grandmas enjoying a good book. Burwood is a proudly multicultural community, with many local families hailing from China and India. There’s plenty to explore in Burwood. Roughly grouped around the railway station are the large Burwood Westfield shopping centre, the smaller Burwood Plaza and loads of shops and cafes on the streets. MLC primary and high schools, Burwood Public School and Southern Cross Vocational College (a Catholic college for years 11 and 12) are located in Burwood and the suburb is also serviced by several other high schools in neighboring suburbs, including Burwood Girls High School in Croydon. The well-maintained Burwood Park, located near the Westfield shopping centre, is a popular meeting place and Wangal Park is being developed with education, fitness and play areas. The historic Woodstock Community Centre, built in the 1870s will soon have a community hall attached to it. Burwood showcases some beautiful architecture. Take a stroll down Appian Way and see the Federation homes, or if your taste is more contemporary, there are plenty of towers filled with modern apartments. Or you can compromise between the two and move into a gorgeous art deco apartment, or a modern townhouse. While many blocks have already been redeveloped, there are still some homes on large blocks up for grabs. For cafe and restaurant culture, plenty of shopping, proximity to the city and family facilities, it’s hard to go past Burwood. Its multicultural community, fantastic architecture and well-cared for green spaces make this Western suburb a popular place to live for both families and singles.
NEWINGTON||
GREGORY HILLS||
ROSSMORE||
ESCHOL PARK||
NORTH BALGOWLAH||
GLENMORE PARK|Big houses, parks and golf clubs are all characteristics of the Glenmore Park way of life. Here you may know your neighbours, but you won’t be living on top of them.|Multiple public schools, reasonably priced housing, lots of recreational facilities, shopping centres and several parks, Glenmore Park is the place to stretch your wings. Glenmore Park locals are a family-oriented bunch. Three-quarters of all families in this suburb include children. You’ll also find plenty of grandparents here whose children left home long ago. No modern suburb would be complete without day-to-day essentials and Glenmore Park has them all, carefully spread throughout the suburb. In the one-stop-shop town centre you’ll find a Woolworths, casual eateries, a service station and newsagent alongside other conveniences. There are also multiple public and private primary and high schools to choose from. The bus network is the only public transport option available in Glenmore Park. Residents need to catch a bus to neighbouring Penrith and use the train service to get to Sydney CBD via public transport – approximately a 90 minute trip in total. Big, large or enormous? If you’re looking for a home with lots of room to move, Glenmore Park is ideally suited. Here, the vast majority of houses boast three or more bedrooms. As a relatively new suburb, homes in Glenmore Park are typically very modern. Apartment living here is rare, so be prepared to get the lawn mower out once in a while! Glenmore Park is a postcode planned for modern lives. Here, all the amenities you need to enjoy your home are strategically arranged to maximise convenience. This careful consideration, paired with beautiful parklands, spacious homes and numerous schooling options makes this suburb an ideal place to settle your family.
ST HELENS PARK||
COALCLIFF||
EASTLAKES||
MOSMAN|Located only eight kilometres from the CBD, the hilly streets of Mosman are studded with premium properties. With coastline on three sides, opportunities for water glimpses (and more) are plentiful.|One of Sydney’s grandest suburbs, Mosman is located just 8kms from the CBD over the Sydney Harbour Bridge. It’s a suburb many aspire to live in and once you’re there, there’s little real reason to leave, with plenty of shops along Military Road, stunning scenery and even the iconic Taronga Zoo to keep you amused. Balmoral Beach offers a more relaxed atmosphere, with parks, swimming and beachside cafes. The baby boomers quite rightly had their eye on Mosman, and they’re not in a hurry to leave. You’re likely to meet mature folk who have left having children until later in life. That’s not to say that there aren’t plenty of younger folk frolicking on Balmoral beach or tacking their sailboat along Middle Harbour, but generally speaking they’re in the minority. It’s tempting to stay at home and get lost in the harbour view from your balcony, but at some point it’s important to leave the house. A walk through Mosman is an excellent workout due to the inevitable hill-climbing challenges. There’s a community bus for short trips and plenty of buses into the CBD; or the ferry if you prefer a water crossing. Small clumps of village shops include delicatessens, bakeries and specialty gift stores, while the major shopping precinct is located on Military Road. There’s an array of eateries, with a curious overrepresentation of Thai restaurants. In neighbouring Cremorne you’ll find a cinema which is popular with locals. Taronga Zoo is set on some of Mosman’s most enchanting real estate, with the giraffes enjoying a spectacular harbour view. Sydney Harbour National Park encloses the Eastern side of Mosman and is excellent for walks and picnics. Boat sports are popular and sailing, rowing and yacht clubs are found towards Spit Junction. Swimmers are spoilt for choice with plenty of beaches, an enclosed shark net swimming area with boardwalk at Balmoral Beach and a heated indoor 25m swimming pool at Mosman Swim Centre. There are several schools in Mosman including well-regarded public and private institutions. Meandering, hilly streets branch off Military Road, which is the main arterial leading from the Harbour Bridge through to Spit Junction. Most commonly known for well-preserved Federation homes, Mosman also has state-of-the-art modern townhouses together with blocks of simple units. Many properties boast spectacular views, together with the unmistakable (and often welcome) breeze off the water. Mosman is home to some of Australia’s most beautiful Federation houses. With beaches, parks and plenty of shopping, this suburb boasts one of Sydney’s most coveted lifestyles. Encompassing Balmoral and Spit Junction and boasting beaches, several water sports clubs and the famous Taronga Zoo, Mosman is a truly unique suburb. The locals don't have to go far for everything they need, with shops, restaurants and more lined up along Military Road or studded along the coastline. The meandering hilly streets show off heritage-listed mansions alongside architecturally designed townhouses. Mosman has a home for each discerning buyer.
PARKLEA||
BROOKVALE||
LIVERPOOL|With a major hospital, sprawling shopping and commercial area and plenty of apartments, Liverpool is one of those suburbs you might never need to leave.|One of Australia’s oldest urban settlements, Liverpool has grown from an agricultural and farming town in the 1800s to a major business and health destination. Liverpool’s multicultural community brings together people from all over the world, with families from Iraq, India, Croatia and Serbia now dedicated Liverpudlians. Traditionally a working class area, locals are now employed in a wider range of industries from tech, trade and labour through to professions and office work. Shopping, parks, and even river views, Liverpool has it all. Liverpool Westfield is the major shopping mall and feeds out onto Macquarie Street, where several malls can be found, together with Liverpool Plaza. There’s a healthy cafe culture in Liverpool, with several cafes to choose from along the streets. Liverpool is home to one of Australia’s largest libraries, and Liverpool Hospital, a teaching hospital and large employer of people in the area. The Southern area of Liverpool is set up for high-density business, while the northern end is set up as a residential area. A train to the city will take about an hour, and there are plenty of public, private and religious schools, not to mention parks and sporting facilities – a fantastic base for the whole family. Liverpool apartment blocks range from brick 70s buildings in need of some TLC, to brand new modern security buildings. Buy yourself a fixer-upper and put your own stamp on your abode, or buy off the plan and move in without anything to do. Houses and townhouses are available, but are in far lesser supply than apartments. If you’re after a dynamic city-away-from-the-city, then you can’t go past Liverpool. Amenities are plentiful – from hospitals to schools, shops and cafes, and business districts. Liverpool is home to lots of children and there are plenty of schools, parks and sporting facilities to cater for them.
COLEBEE||
CANADA BAY||
WOOLWICH||
QUAKERS HILL|Dominated by the University of Western Sydney’s Nirimba Campus, Quakers Hill is popular with students and families alike.|Quakers Hill is on the Western train line between Marayong and Schofields, about an hour’s train ride from the Sydney CBD. Huge family homes sit upon generous blocks, and everything you need is just a short drive away. Quakers Hill is multicultural with locals hailing from all around the world including India and the Philippines. Most residents work in offices – which might explain the attraction of the large back-yards that you can find here. Quakers Court Shopping centre (technically on Quakers Road in neighbouring Marayong) has all the essentials including a supermarket, bakery and pharmacy. A smaller collection of shops can be found on Douglas Road, near Quakers Hill train station and there is an Aldi on Morrell Crescent. Locals are most likely to drive to work, or take the train. The M7 Westlink Shared Path for bikes and pedestrians runs through Quakers Hill, and there is a detour through the parklands from Quakers Hill Parkway through to the Great Western Highway. Roll up your driveway to the garage doors (probably double) of your new home. Whether it’s an older brick home, a federation-style townhouse or a towering family residence, you can be sure you’ll have plenty of space in Quakers Hill. The vast majority of homes are stand-alone houses and the rest are semi-detached or townhouses. Apartments are extremely rare in this suburb. If you’re after room to move and a home built with families in mind, Quakers Hill is for you. Homes are in demand in this area and there are plenty of amenities in Quakers Hill and neighbouring Blacktown, plus it’s only 10 minutes to the huge Park Lea markets.
OTFORD||
TERREY HILLS||
WORONORA||
ERSKINEVILLE|So close to alternative Newtown you can almost smell the patchouli, but Erskineville’s pace is slower and more laidback.|Straddling the inner city and inner west, this charming suburb was established by bricklayers, market gardeners and tanners. And its transformation couldn’t be more dramatic; these days it’s home to creative inner city types who can be found at one of the many pubs, bars and cafes that help make this a postcode one of the best lifestyle areas in Sydney. It’s not hard to see the advantages that Erskineville has to offer, which is why you’ll find all ages in the neighbourhood. There’s a strong multicultural mix, including a rich Greek and Macedonian heritage. In recent times, however, young professionals have moved on to the scene, alongside a growing number of young families, who are all renovating and remodelling, transforming older homes into fresh new abodes. Home to three of Sydney’s best pubs – including the iconic The Imperial, which featured in Pricilla, Queen of the Desert – within a brisk walk from one-another, you’re never short of options for a lazy afternoon’s drink. The thriving high street, which extends from Erskineville train station towards Newtown, offers up the coffee, brunch and gourmet delights. In the evenings, the Hive Bar is where the locals meet, sipping on the locally brewed E’Vill. For young families, it’s all about Erskineville Public School. Despite sitting shoulder to shoulder, the small-scale terrace homes that crowd the narrow streets all possess a distinct sense of personality. Erskineville may well be one of the hottest inner city spots, but it hasn’t sacrificed any of its charm by way of jarring developments. At one end, a federation gothic style church spire punctures the air; at the other, Art Deco apartments, pubs and cafes cluster around the bustling high street. Erskineville’s creative conscience runs deep. From the colourful residents, the dramatic drinking dens, fringe theatre at PACT, to the gourmet food stores and cafes, there’s a sense of thinking differently here that’s embedded within the tight-knit community. There’s an Erskineville way of looking at Sydney, which makes it one of the most prized lifestyle postcodes in the state.
KAREELA||
CONSTITUTION HILL||
PANANIA||
ROPES CROSSING||
MCGRATHS HILL||
ENFIELD||
BONNYRIGG HEIGHTS||
BEROWRA||
SOUTH WINDSOR||
MOUNT VERNON||
PRAIRIEWOOD||
CATTAI||
RUSSELL LEA||
ASQUITH||
ZETLAND||
ARTARMON|With Chatswood 2km to the north, Sydney city 9km to the south and Artarmon itself packed with a generous supply of amenities – locals have it made.|Possibly the pick of the bunch when it comes to a metropolitan lifestyle, Artarmon boasts convenient access to workplaces in the city, Chatswood and North Sydney. With fantastic access to metro Sydney as well as a range of different styles of homes, Artarmon attracts folks of all different ages and life stages. Those in the majority are bachelors and bachelorettes of all ages as well as families. Half of the locals were born in Australia. The next most common countries of birth were China (8%), England (4%) and India (4%). Lifestyle and convenience options are in abundance in Artarmon. Just 2km to the North (or the next stop on the train, if that’s how you ride) is Chatswood, which offers three different multi-level shopping centres clustered together. These centres are home to every kind of store and service you might need, from dentists and pedicures to cinemas and grocery stores. Of course, you can’t overlook the range of amenities in Artarmon itself. While the suburb doesn’t have a group of shopping centres of its own, it does have many useful amenities such as veterinary clinics, parks, cafes and car service centres sprinkled throughout the tree-lined streets. Artarmon train station is located to the north of the suburb. Just over the southern border (nearest the city) are the North Shore Private Hospital and the Royal North Shore Hospital. Both a primary and secondary public school are located within the area and several private schools are located in surrounding suburbs. No matter what type of home you’re after, chances are good that Artarmon has it on offer. In this postcode there are apartments galore (most are located on the city side of the train line), plus large freestanding homes of different eras. Here you’ll find a fantastic range of sizes and styles of home to suit your taste and budget. Artarmon locals have a lot to love about their home, boasting easy and quick access to Sydney, North Sydney and Chatswood hot spots. Within Artarmon is a fantastic range of daily conveniences and facilities for residents to choose from. Best of all, you can enjoy it all from almost any size and style of home you like.
WILLOUGHBY EAST||
EMERTON||
PAGEWOOD||
EAST HILLS||
BEVERLY HILLS|Considerably less plastic-fantastic than its Californian namesake, Sydney’s Beverly Hills keeps it real.|Filled with delicious local restaurants, a multicultural community and plenty of public transport options, Beverly Hills is on the up and up. What it lacks in films stars, Beverly Hills makes up for in a strong community. The streets are filled with families, first home owners and renters, plus plenty of older couples and empty nesters. Feeling peckish? You only need stroll down King Georges Road for your senses to be satisfied, thanks to the eclectic and drool-worthy mix of Chinese, Indian, German, Thai and Greek restaurants on offer. On Sunday afternoons, the Beverly Hills Hotel is filled with locals enjoying a cheeky beer before catching a new release at the cinema almost next door. The train station means it’s just a quick commute straight to Central. There are strong academic options for school children too, with Beverly Hills Girls' High School, Beverly Hills Primary School, Beverly Hills North Primary School and Regina Coeli Primary School all falling within the postcode. A classic example of a hard-working suburb that really began to take off after the end of the Second World War, Beverly Hills’ streets are filled with family homes in mid-century style. There are a few Art Deco homes and small-scale apartment blocks, plus, more recently, medium-density apartments as property developers roll into town. Charming green parks, a bustling high-street with affordable eats, a cinema and a dedicated train station – Beverly Hills ticks a lot of the must-have boxes. With all eyes on this side of the city, astute homebuyers and investors are heading to this little neck of the woods for a home with heart.
LEWISHAM||
BOTANY||
NARELLAN||
BONNET BAY||
WORONORA HEIGHTS||
NARWEE||
WERRINGTON||
LANE COVE WEST||
DRUMMOYNE|Surrounded on three sides by the famous Sydney Harbour and Parramatta River, Drummoyne boasts some of Sydney’s best waterfront properties.|Spectacular views, easy access and excellent outlet shopping, all set amongst blue-chip real estate, Drummoyne is increasingly popular, and it’s obvious why! Drummoyne is home to people at many stages of life. Here, you’re most likely to find younger singles and couples as well as more established families with older kids. More than 70% of working people in Drummoyne spend their weekdays in offices, as professionals, managers or administrative staff. Victoria Road (one of Sydney’s busiest roads) cuts through the heart of Drummoyne providing excellent access to both the city and neighbouring suburbs. While Drummoyne enjoys its own ferry wharf, numerous bus routes run the Victoria Street gauntlet making the suburb well-serviced by public transport. Both Lyons Road and Victoria Road have numerous shopping options including restaurants and speciality stores. Birkenhead Point Shopping Centre and Outlet Centre is located on the water near the Iron Cove Bridge. This shopping centre contains both outlet stores for numerous major retailers as well as a Coles supermarket, fishmonger, fresh produce retailers and a number of cafes. A number of churches, both public and private primary school options and facilities such as Drummoyne Olympic Pool and several parks round off Drummoyne’s facilities. Whether you’re looking for a home so close to the water it has its own boat berth or your budget tends a little more towards a small apartment, Drummoyne has a home for you. Here you’ll find apartments and flats of all ages as well as historic freestanding houses from a variety of eras and brand new architect-designed entertainers. Outlet shopping, easy access and plenty of day-to-day conveniences typify this waterfront suburb just 6km north-west of the Sydney CBD. If it’s blue-chip property you’re looking for, some of the most desirable real estate in Sydney is in Drummoyne’s east. Enjoying glittering water views, great access to the city via car or bus and plenty of public facilities as well as great cafes, restaurants and shopping. It’s easy to understand Drummoyne’s enduring popularity.
BALGOWLAH HEIGHTS||
BLAIRMOUNT||
TENNYSON POINT||
REVESBY|Astute homebuyers and investors are all headed to Revesby.|Set in the south-west, Revesby is hot property. This ever-developing part of Sydney, neatly tucked between Padstow and Panania and just south of Bankstown, really took off during the post-war regeneration of Sydney.  But most recently, with Sydney’s Western suburbs revitalisation, Revesby’s attractive property prices and connectivity make it a must-visit for potential home buyers. Everyone is welcome in Revesby. This diverse neighbourhood is filled with singles, professionals, empty nesters, retirees and families, of young and old. This enviable spread creates a really interesting cross-section within the community. Overall, you’ll find mostly families, but with recent multi-level apartment developments, there’s a strong increase in young people to the area, too. Hop off the train at Revesby and you’re immediately at the heart of the neighbourhood. Along Marco Avenue and Selems Parade, a cluster of suburb essentials, such as post offices, cafes, grocers, delis and an enormous Woolworths, can be found. Revesby Abbey, built in 2003, also graces the Avenue with new-build apartments and boutique stores, bringing a little inner-city style to the postcode. The Revesby Workers Club is a much-loved social centre, filled with family entertainment, trivia nights, yum cha restaurants and fitness facilities. Schooling options abound, including Revesby Public School, Revesby South Public School, Sir Joseph Banks High School and St Lukes Primary School. Revesby was an undiscovered gem of a suburb until well after World War II, when returning service men moved to the area with their families. But it’s the opening of the train station that really led to the regeneration of the area, and since then the small fibro homes, which are still very much a part of the suburb, have slowly given way to larger family town houses, multi-level apartment complexes and semi-detached terraces. With competitive house prices, swift connectivity to the city, airport and Parramatta and a family-friendly community, Revesby is certainly poised for great things. Add to the mix a new wave of apartments and boutique businesses and you’ll see this little postcode is packed with potential.
CHERRYBROOK|Just 30 minutes drive from the city (on a good day), with bush views, plenty of amenities and a fantastic family lifestyle, it’s no wonder Cherrybrook is seriously in demand.|The name ‘Cherrybrook’ is said to have been borrowed from ‘Cherrybrook Cottage’, the name a couple in the mid-1800s gave to their home, a small timber cottage. Inspiration for the name is rumoured to have come from the cherry trees they planted by the creek. Cherrybrook locals tend to work in offices – which is why they probably enjoy coming home to the beauty of this area. The suburb is also well designed for families with the full gamut of educational facilities from childcare through to Cherrybrook Technology High School, the largest government high school in the state. Cherrybrook Village Shopping Centre is the main shopping centre and has all the essential supermarket, beauty, health and professional services outlets. Appletree Shopping Centre on Shepherds drive has a smaller collection of shops and takeaway food. Elouera Bushland Reserve splays along the creeks on the eastern side of Cherrybrook. For more recreation, there’s Greenway Park, where you’ll find the indoor heated pool, and a dog park; Edward Bennett Oval for soccer and cricket; and Thomas Thompson Park for tennis, soccer and cricket. Baseball is a popular sport and is based at Greenway Park. There are plenty of schools servicing Cherrybrook including several public schools, the popular Cherrybrook Technology High School and Inala (a Steiner school for people with disabilities). The majority of homes in Cherrybrook are stand-alone houses, with very few apartments available. The average home has three or four bedrooms. Large entertainment areas indoors and out, double garages, multiple bathrooms and kitchens mean that the average Cherrybrook home is serious business. For those seeking more space, you might even find your own estate on acreage. If you’re after a family home where everyone can find their own corner, beautiful settings for entertaining and plenty of parklands to explore, Cherrybrook is for you. Working in the city is feasible. While public transport can be unwieldy, a good drive to the city will take about half an hour.
KOGARAH BAY||
PLEASURE POINT||
MOUNT PRITCHARD||
BANKSTOWN AERODROME||
CHIFLEY||
NARELLAN VALE||
ROSELANDS||
HURSTVILLE GROVE||
PICNIC POINT||
HORSLEY PARK||
TAREN POINT||
CARINGBAH||
CANLEY HEIGHTS||
DARKES FOREST||
MAIANBAR||
HABERFIELD||
MARAYLYA||
MINCHINBURY||
MARSFIELD||
BUNDEENA||
LILYFIELD||
NARRABEEN||
ARCADIA||
GRANVILLE||
BONDI JUNCTION|With high-octane shopping and entertainment on your doorstep, it’s easy to  forget that Bondi Junction also boasts green parks and a walk to the beach.|This well designed suburb, snugly fitting between Bellevue Hill, Woollahra,  Bondi and Centennial Park, certainly packs a lot into a little postcode. There is, of  course, the multi-storey Westfield shopping centre filled with every type of store  imaginable. But there are also restaurants, parklands and cafes, and all within  walking distance to Australia’s most iconic beach. Thanks to the proliferation of apartments, units and townhouses, this is a place  where independent singles, couples and empty nesters meet. With great  connectivity to the city and the beach, plus some of the best shopping on offer, it  suits the spontaneous nature of a Sydney social butterfly. Sale time? You’ll be first in line living in Bondi Junction, and don’t forget the boutiques, homewares stores and grocers along Oxford Street Mall, too. But this clever little neighbourhood’s charms don’t start and end with a glittering, multi-storey shopping centre – charming Centennial Park, old-fashioned pubs, delicious Yum Cha restaurants and a brisk stroll down Bondi Road to the world-famous beach, all make this a great spot for those who want an active lifestyle. In fact, there’s so much on offer, you almost forget the city is only 6km away, and even closer thanks to the bustling bus and train interchange. As Sydney’s fifth largest business district, Bondi Junction is a place live, work and  play. At its heart you’ll find a people-packed mall, buzzing cafes and a shopping  mecca. Slick new apartment complexes house most of the residents; although a  few Victorian and Federation style terraces are still to be found on smaller  streets closer to Centennial Park. Bondi Junction is great compromise for those who want access to all the perks of Sydney’s glamour lifestyle without the public transport nightmare. And despite the hustle and bustle of all the retail shops, restaurants and businesses, Bondi Junction also offers a softer side in the rolling green of Centennial Park and the waves of Bondi Beach.
BELROSE|This small, sleepy suburb with its wide, open spaces offers up all the loveliness of the Northern Beaches, with the added bonus of national parks.|Belrose is how suburban life should be. Small enough to have a tight-knit sense of community, yet full of wide-open spaces for generously sized family homes. Thanks to its proximity to the famous Northern Beaches, there’s a real holiday mood in the area, plus a lush sense of greenery thanks to the giant swathes of national parks. There’s no missing the prams on the street, the SUVs ferrying the kids from school and play, and the family friendly cafes and restaurants. The vast majority of Belrose residents are busily nesting. In fact, well over half of the locals live in families. Elderly couples and empty nesters are also well entrenched in the community. To the north of the neighbourhood, at the junction of Forest Way and Mona Vale Road you’ll discover shopping on a grand scale. It’s here locals stock up on all their Supa Centre, grocery and camping needs.  Further south down Forest Way is the much loved Belrose Hotel, which, especially on a Sunday, caters for families with a playroom, big screens and a cheap and cheerful menu. Schools are plentiful, with the Wakehurst Public School, Belrose Public School, Covenant Christian School, and Kamaroi Rudolf Steiner School among the many options. Development has been slow coming to Belrose, but in recent years, it’s certainly taken off. The streets are still wide and leafy with the trees rivalling houses in the area – but large-scale shopping centres, industrial parks and light industry are also part of the postcode.  The houses here are made for families, with most of them built from the 1960s onwards, enjoying front and backyards and plenty of parklands. Known locally as ‘The Forest’, Belrose adds much needed lush greenery to Sydney living. Only 19km from the city centre, locals regularly commute by car or bus to work but relish the tranquil weekend harmony that this pristine paradise offers families and retirees alike. 
ANNANGROVE||
CLAREMONT MEADOWS||
CARLINGFORD|Carlingford, in Sydney’s Hills District, is just over 20 kilometres from the Sydney CBD.|When residents return home to their leafy Carlingford neighbourhood, they are surrounded by comfortable homes on large blocks. Multi-car garaging is common, as are pools and big yards. Streets are clean and well-maintained. Workers commute to the CBD or Parramatta, either by car or bus, and bus services run frequently. Car is king in Carlingford – a long-hoped for train network remains in the planning stages. There are plenty of after-school sports activities for kids and teens, and parks are popular haunts on weekends. Check out the view from Mobbs Hill or explore the ancient eucalypts in Galaringi Reserve. Carlingford Court ticks the boxes for a shopping mall with it all, while Carlingford Road has a good mix of local shops. Pennant Hills Road has a huge selection of relaxed eateries including Italian, Japanese and Thai. Familiar chains are the order of the day for cafes, especially at the mall, but there are some local gems experimenting with fresh produce too. For nightcaps, you may have to hotfoot it to nearby Parramatta, which has a variety of pubs, clubs and bars. The consistently high-performing James Ruse Agricultural High School is in Carlingford, which boasts a median ATAR of above 99. There are also plenty of other private and public schools. Once home to orchards supplying Sydney’s fruit, the area is now a comfortable place for families wanting to be close to the city while living in a friendly neighbourhood. Sprawling brick homes sit aside modern rendered masterpieces. Landscaped gardens are common, as are swimming pools. Large apartments packed with amenities, including communal pools and gyms are available. Carlingford is packed with great schools. With proximity to the CBD and beyond, and family homes, friendly neighbourhoods and easy access to amenities, it’s a popular choice for buyers.
RIVERWOOD||
EASTWOOD|Croquet, anyone? Chock-full with modern amenities (plus a few with more retro appeal), Eastwood has a lot to offer.|Sliced in two by the ever-convenient train line (just a 30 minute ride into the city), Eastwood is dominated by its sprawling village packed with amenities. Located 17 kilometres from Sydney’s CBD, you could be forgiven for assuming Eastwood is mostly home to families, but that’s not the case. You’ll find as many married couples as not, and lots of young people who haven’t paired up. Interestingly, more than half of households in Eastwood speak two or more languages. If you’re yearning for a suburb with timeless appeal, Eastwood could be perfect. With no massive, modern shopping centre but instead a bustling network of high streets, you’ll find everything you need and then some. Here, your neighbour could easily be the owner of your favourite restaurant. In fact, the village is packed with casual eateries and this is exactly where you’ll find locals in their spare time. Between all the cafes and restaurants, you’ll find a swarm of useful shops and services. Everything from golf stores and dentists to banks and podiatrists can be found in the streets around Eastwood train station. In Eastwood you’ll find a delightful combination of homes above retail stores, large multi-bedroom homes on big lots of land and a smattering of leafy boutique apartment blocks. Brick is big here and renovations or refreshes are common. Whilst there are some new builds, expect to see a lot of Art Deco-era homes. Eastwood offers the kind of community and lifestyle found in years gone by. Whilst you may need to leave it for the office on a weekday, you’ll find yourself breathing a sigh of relief when you return home to your little part of the world. Whether it’s day-to-day convenience or boutiques, restaurants and cafes you’re after, it’s all here in Eastwood.
BANKSIA||
BILGOLA||
CECIL PARK||
EARLWOOD||
STANMORE|This inner-west enclave is mixing up charming old-school style with a dash of gourmet goodness.|It’s almost as if the rest of Sydney has suddenly woken up to the charming streetscapes and genteel mood that are an indelible part of the Stanmore experience. Perched on the city fringe and within walking distance to little Italy Leichhardt and naughty Newtown, Stanmore was once a sleepy suburb, beloved by students and old-school inner-westies for decades. But change is definitely in the air. The rise and rise of the inner west brings new cafes, an arts scene and hot new restaurants to the area, and there’s no looking back. Greek, Italian and Vietnamese migrants settled here decades ago, providing the Stanmore of today with a strong population of second and third generation multicultural Australians. In the 1980s, the area became popular with students and young people, thanks to lower rents and proximity to the city and universities. Young professionals and families now make up the next wave of residents, taking advantage of the schools, inner city proximity mixed with the larger blocks and new developments towards Parramatta Road. One of the leaders of the inner-west renaissance, Stanmore’s residents are certainly eating, drinking and caffeinating well these days. The envy of the rest of Sydney is Sixpenny, an elegant mid-century restaurant creating one of the best menus in the city. For early birds, locally brewed cold-drip coffee puts a pep into the step. And of course, there are the famous long-timers: the Aphrodite Restaurant in the Cyprus Community Club, which offers some of the best priced comfort food this side of Paramatta Road; and Olympia Milk Bar, with its grungy, down-at-heel local appeal. What it lacks in parks, Stanmore makes up for in schools; Newington College, Stanmore Public and Saint Michael's Catholic Primary are all found within a few blocks of each other. Established in late 19th century, Stanmore’s time-bubble-like charm is thanks to it being overlooked by developers in the 1980s, a silver lining of the aircraft noise above. Cardigan and Cavendish Streets and Corunna Road are all home to some Victorian architectural gems. A snapshot of the suburb’s overall feel can be taken from the high street, which connects to the train station, where a cluster of quaint stores, supermarkets and homes sit side by side creating a small-town- like feel. The postcode also boasts heritage listed Gothic-style mansions, while even Stanmore public school boasts a stunning example of classicism. Stand aside Leichhardt, Annandale and Newtown, Stanmore is fast becoming a destination suburb in its own right thanks to some exciting new food ventures. But long-time residents have always known there’s a certain charm on the streets and are holding fast to maintaining the elegant surrounds of this slow burn inner west suburb.
BLIGH PARK||
RIVERVIEW||
PADDINGTON|The crowds of terrace houses in Paddington were considered ‘slums’ by some in the 1950s – my, oh my, how things have changed…|Paddington’s tree-lined streets, beautifully restored Victorian terrace houses and fantastic shopping and eating will have you forgiving her narrow streets and partying neighbours. Paddington locals range from those who work hard and play hard (a convenient pastime when you’re seconds from Oxford Street) and those who walk dogs (with their own middle names) to brunch before a spot of shopping at some of the best boutiques in Sydney. Eating out is popular in Paddington – but if you’re after groceries, the good people of Thomas Dux will be pleased to help. For larger shopping centres, Bondi Junction and the city aren’t far away. Paddington’s bohemian roots are on show every Saturday, when the Paddington Markets pop up in the grounds of the Uniting Church on Oxford Street. The markets have been running since 1973 (making them even older than some of the vintage jackets up for sale). There are plenty of buses from Paddington into the city – or out to nearby beaches including Bondi and Bronte. You’ll find more spoilt pets than spoilt children in Paddington, although most cafes are armed with a babycino for visiting little ones. European settlement in Paddington was led by an ex-convict gin distiller, and that set the tone for Paddington’s many incarnations. The most famous building in town was christened ‘Juniper Hall’ by that ex-con himself (Robert Cooper) and stands to this day. If an 1820s mansion is beyond your cleaning appetite, there are hundreds of beautiful Victorian terrace houses to choose from. They’re narrow, the original stairs to the second (third or fourth) floor are narrow and quite possibly your street will be narrow. You’ll love it. If you love good coffee, great food and fabulous shopping, Paddington is for you. Throw in walking-distance to the city and some of the most beautiful architecture around, and it’s a pretty tempting option. Just make sure your parking skills are up to scratch – it’s an art in these parts.
BEACON HILL||
MENAI||
SACKVILLE NORTH||
LIDCOMBE|Lidcombe is bubbling with both day-to-day and speciality conveniences in a fantastically easy-to-access location.|A dozen places of worship, health specialists, Costco, schools and plenty of shopping options all connected with a well-serviced public transport network - Lidcombe has the works. With excellent public transport options and a university campus, Lidcombe has its share of young people. Together with older couples, families and singles, Lidcombe enjoys a contemporary community composition: less than one in five families speak only English at home. Other families also speak Korean, Mandarin and Arabic, contributing to Lidcombe’s reputation as a cosmopolitan, multicultural neighbourhood. Lidcombe locals enjoy an interesting mix of residential, commercial and industrial areas spread throughout the suburb. A small shopping centre is located close to the train station with a range of specialty stores. Lidcombe is also home to the first Costco in NSW, located on Parramatta Road. For other major supermarkets like Coles, Woolworths and Aldi, residents need not travel far – they’re located nearby in surrounding suburbs. There are a number of education options catering from preschool through to university. Major hospitals, substantial parklands and Sydney Olympic Park – site of the 2000 Sydney Olympics – are all in neighbouring areas. Interestingly, Lidcombe boasts a rather high number of places of worship – there are 12 in total, all in the one suburb. Lidcombe train station is a major junction station servicing four suburban lines. The suburb is also accessed by another four bus routes plus two late night bus services. In Lidcombe you’ll find a great variety of homes. Here, residents occupy anything from modern studios and small older-style boutique flats to larger, freestanding houses. Some older homes have been renovated, however those still in need of a modern touch are plentiful. Brand new developments are less common and those which do pop up are more likely to be apartments than houses. Great public transport, plentiful education options and location make for the foundations of an ideal suburb. Residents also enjoy the enormous variety offered by surrounding suburbs with Sydney Olympic Park, health services, shopping and interesting parklands on their doorstep. All this, just 9km from Parramatta and 14km from Sydney CBD.
BIRRONG||
DOVER HEIGHTS||
ELANORA HEIGHTS||
HENLEY||
SANDY POINT||
RABY||
WATSONS BAY||
POINT PIPER||
VAUCLUSE||
ENMORE||
WOOLLOOMOOLOO||
GORDON||
LANSDOWNE||
PEAKHURST||
SUTHERLAND||
RODD POINT||
WOMBARRA||
EAST RYDE||
WENTWORTHVILLE||
HUNTLEYS COVE||
RUSHCUTTERS BAY||
RYDE|As the third-oldest settlement in NSW behind Sydney and Parramatta, Ryde and its heritage listed buildings have quite a story to tell.|Peppered with great infrastructure and surrounded by every convenience, Ryde is an ideal location for that time-honoured Australian home. Easy access to freeways, parks, schools and shopping centres – it’s clear why everyone wants a ticket to Ryde. It might sound an eclectic blend, but with the combination of traditional family size homes and apartments, Ryde sports a vibrant mix of carefree students, pram-pushing mums and dads and relaxed retirees. Here, diversity is in full swing - your neighbours are just as likely to be of Australian ancestry as English or Chinese. Like its array of residents, the lifestyle in Ryde is incredibly varied with so much to choose from. Ryde Aquatic Leisure Centre was home to the 2000 Sydney Olympics water polo and is now a venue enjoyed by the entire community – not just for swimming, but also basketball, indoor soccer and more. Ryde also sports its own sizeable shopping centre (complete with cinema), but if the thing you’re after can’t be found there, bargain hunters will love the factory outlets just a suburb away in Homebush. Of course, Ryde also enjoys a large variety of all those good things you expect in the ideal suburb – casual eateries, parks, a bowling club… it’s all in Ryde. No matter the era, condition or style of home you’re looking for, there’s a very good chance you’ll find it in Ryde. Whether you’re scouring the suburbs for a period home to reinvent and make your own, a one-bedroom apartment as your first ever purchase or a multi-level mansion with a tennis court and pool, Ryde has it on offer. Demand for homes in Ryde can be incredibly high and it’s easy to see why – almost everything you could want living in metropolitan Australia is available without leaving your postcode. Schools, vets, shopping centres, pools, cinemas, recreation centres, libraries… actually, we can’t think of anything you can’t find in Ryde.
NORTH PARRAMATTA||
KINGS PARK||
TURRELLA||
MANLY|A holiday town with city proximity, Manly offers an enviable lifestyle.|Manly seems to sparkle, or could that be the reflection from Sydney Harbour on its west and the Pacific Ocean on its east? In between you’ll find The Corso, a community hub lined with shops, restaurants and bars, and facilities for a variety of outdoor recreation – biking, surfing, swimming, volleyball, tennis and more. With a rich history (‘Manly’ was how Governor Phillip described the local Aborigines), this paradise is just a 30 minute ferry ride from the CBD. You’re likely to spot Mum and Dad wandering down The Corso with a child dangling from each hand, quite probably skipping and dripping ice cream all over the footpath. Peeking from behind newspapers at the coffee shops you’ll find city professionals on their days off. Behind the tills you’ll find hard-working hospitality professionals who seem to never take holidays. Come weekends, Manly is a destination for beach-lovers from miles around. Manly is in the northern suburbs of Sydney on a spectacular point which is bordered by Sydney Harbour on one side and Manly Beach (and the Pacific Ocean) on the other. At the tip of the point is Sydney Harbour National Park. In total, Manly boasts over 20km of cycle tracks. Facing the ocean, Queenscliff Beach, North Steyne Beach and Manly Beach cater for swimmers and surfers, and Manly Beach is serviced by one of Australia’s oldest surf life saving clubs. The Corso stretches from Manly Beach to Manly Harbour, where buses and ferries can be caught. More shopping arcades can be found to the north of The Corso, and a larger supermarket and more shops are to the South. The Manly Village Art and Craft Market is held monthly near Spit Junction and the annual Manly Jazz Festival is held on the October Labour Day weekend. Manly is a 20 minute drive from the CBD on a (very) good day. Many city workers take the Ferry (30 minutes) or the privately owned Fast Ferry (20 minutes) from Manly to Circular Quay. Manly’s rich history is evident in the homes on offer. From the oldest homes built in the late 1800s, Federation homes and art deco and P&O (or nautical deco) examples, to modern architect-designed abodes, homes here are generally well-presented. A limited number of homes are available which are in close-to-original condition, often through deceased estates. Due to the popularity of Manly and its excellent views, more and more apartment buildings are springing up, although they are generally kept to three or four storeys high. Manly, in Sydney’s Northern suburbs, boasts an enviable lifestyle. With harbour on one side and oceans on the other, excellent restaurants, cafes and bars are attracted to the area to serve locals and tourists alike. There are a range of activities for families, from bike riding, swimming, surfing and more. Starting the day with a ferry ride to the city is an added bonus for commuters, and returning to a modern apartment, heritage home or art deco wonder – not to mention the calm blue sea - is sure to wipe away memories of the working day. You’ll be hard-pressed to find a holiday lifestyle like this as close to the city as Manly.
SYLVANIA||
GLEN ALPINE||
BEECROFT||
WATERLOO||
WEST RYDE||
NAREMBURN||
SOUTH TURRAMURRA||
KILLARA|Large houses, plenty of parks, notable schools and convenient city access are all features of Killara loved by locals.|With a great historical story to tell, Killara offers residents an enviable lifestyle full of recreation options, eateries and plenty of access to public transport. Killara families are most likely to have older kids. Mature couples and solo grandparents also call this leafy oasis home. Locals tend to be professionals and or otherwise work in offices – which is probably why they love the greenery here. Originally established in the late 1800s as a ‘Gentleman’s Suburb’, Killara has never had many commercial properties, favouring residential buildings instead. To this day, it technically has no supermarket of its own, however several are located in surrounding areas. Killara does enjoy a range of cafes and other eateries as well as specialty stores, mostly located along the Pacific Highway and clustered around the train station (right in the middle of the suburb). Many parks and one of Sydney’s premier golf clubs – Killara Golf Club (established in 1899) provide abundant greenery for the suburb. Killara boasts two well-regarded primary schools and Killara High School – regarded as the best performing non-selective government secondary school in the state for final year (HSC) exams. Killara enjoys great history and while a variety of homes are on offer, the majority are Federation and Californian bungalow styles. Here, some of Sydney’s most palatial homes are available too – we’re talking tennis courts, heated pools…you get the idea. Both modern and historic apartment buildings are available – the latter often with house-sized proportions. Plentiful greenery, a prestigious golf club and a generous serve of eateries – if it sounds like the ingredients for your perfect community, Killara must be on your wishlist. Here, homes are large, schools are competitive and at just 14km from Sydney CBD, many would argue the location is just right.
HEBERSHAM||
CARRAMAR||
NEWPORT||
SOUTH MAROOTA||
YARRAWARRAH||
FAIRFIELD HEIGHTS||
